Skills and Workforce Development
Agency Bill
Bill No. 13/2026.
Read the first time on 8 April 2026.
SKILLS AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT
AGENCY ACT 2026
(No. of 2026)
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART 1
PRELIMINARY
Section
1. Short title and commencement
2. Interpretation
PART 2
ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONS AND
POWERS OF AGENCY
3. Skills and Workforce Development Agency
4. Agency is body corporate
5. Functions of Agency
6. Powers of Agency
7. Directions of Minister, etc.
8. Agency's symbol, etc.
PART 3
CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AGENCY
Division 1  -  Appointment, resignation and removal
9. Membership of Agency
10. Appointment of Agency members
Section
11. Membership disqualification
12. Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson
13. Premature vacancies
14. Acting Chairperson and members
15. Removal of member
16. Resignation from office
17. V alidity of acts, etc.
Division 2  -  Terms and conditions for members
18. Term of appointment
19. Remuneration, etc.
20. V acation of office
21. Other terms and conditions
PART 4
DECISION-MAKING BY AGENCY
Division 1  -  Meetings
22. Procedure generally
23. Notice of meetings
24. Quorum
25. Presiding at meetings
26. V oting at meetings
27. Execution of documents
Division 2  -  Committees and delegation
28. Appointment of committees
29. Proceedings of committees
30. Ability to delegate
31. V alidity of delegate's acts, etc.
PART 5
PERSONNEL MA TTERS
32. Appointment of Chief Executive
33. Officers, etc.
34. Delegates, subdelegates and authorised persons deemed to be
public servants or public officers
35. Preservation of secrecy
36. Protection from personal liability
2
PART 6
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
Section
37. Financial year
38. Revenue and property of Agency
39. Bank accounts
40. Power of investment
41. Issue of shares, etc.
42. Borrowing power
43. Estimates for Skills Development Fund
44. Skills Development Fund to be audited separately
PART 7
ADMINISTRA TION AND ENFORCEMENT
Division 1  -  Preliminary matters, appointments and powers
45. Meanings of "incentive", "grant" and "loan" from Agency
46. Appointment of authorised persons and inspectors
47. Powers to verify information collected or for grants, etc.
48. Powers of inspectors
Division 2  -  Offences and related provisions
49. Abusive funding arrangement
50. Entering into or facilitation of abusive funding arrangement
51. Recovery by Agency of wrongly obtained funding
52. False or misleading advertisements
53. Remedial measures for false or misleading advertisements
54. Refund by funding recipient for cancelled course or
programme, etc.
55. Appeal to Minister against directions under sections 53 and 54
56. Decision of Minister on appeal
57. Designate may hear appeal in place of Minister
58. False or misleading information, statement or document, etc.
59. Penalty for obstructing member, officer, etc.
PART 8
GENERAL
60. Composition of offences
61. Offences by corporations
3
Section
62. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
63. Jurisdiction of courts
64. Service of documents
65. Regulations
66. Codes of practice and guidelines
PART 9
TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS AND
PERSONNEL TO AGENCY
67. Interpretation of this Part
68. Transfer of undertakings to Agency
69. Transfer of employees, etc., to Agency
70. General preservation of employment terms, etc.
71. Transfer of records
72. Confirmation of transfers
PART 10
REPEAL
73. Repeal of SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016
74. Repeal of Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003
PART 11
CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELA TED AMENDMENTS
TO OTHER ACTS
75. Consequential amendment to Enterprise Singapore Board
Act 2018
76. Consequential amendments to Income Tax Act 1947
77. Consequential amendment to Institute of Technical Education
Act 1992
78. Consequential and related amendments to Private Education
Act 2009
79. Consequential amendments to Skills Development Levy
Act 1979
80. Consequential amendments to other Acts
4
PART 12
SA VING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
Section
81. Saving and transitional provisions arising from repeal of
SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016
82. Saving and transitional provisions arising from repeal of
Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003
83. Other saving and transitional provisions
5

A BILL
intituled
An Act to establish the Skills and Workforce Development Agency,
to repeal the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016 and the
Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003, and to make consequential
and related amendments to certain other Acts.
Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the
Parliament of Singapore, as follows:
7
PART 1
PRELIMINARY
Short title and commencement
1. This Act is the Skills and Workforce Development Agency
5 Act 2026 and comes into operation on a date that the Minister
appoints by notification in the Gazette.
Interpretation
2. In this Act  - 
"Agency" means the Skills and Workforce Development
10 Agency established by section 3;
"authorised person" means an authorised person appointed by
the Agency under section 46(1);
"career, employment and training matters" means matters
relating to supporting individuals and employers in their
15 career and workforce needs, including career planning,
training, general learning and skills development, job
search, job mobility, recruitment, workforce planning, job
redesign, retraining and talent development;
"Chairperson" means the member of the Agency who is
20 appointed under section 12(1)(a) as the Chairperson of the
Agency, and includes any individual appointed under
section 14(1) to act in that capacity;
"Chief Executive" means the Chief Executive of the Agency
appointed under section 32, and includes any individual
25 acting in that capacity;
"commerce or industry" includes any trade, manufacturing or
service industry, business or other economic activity;
"committee" means a committee of the Agency appointed under
section 28;
30 "committee member" means an individual appointed to be a
member of a committee under section 28;
8
"company" has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
Companies Act 1967;
"delegate" means a person to whom the Agency under
section 30(1) delegates any of its functions or powers;
5"Deputy Chairperson" means a member of the Agency who is
appointed under section 12(1)(b) as a Deputy Chairperson of
the Agency;
"document" means any thing (in whatever form) in which
information or material of any description is recorded or
10stored, and includes any tape, disk or other storage device or
medium;
"Finance Minister" means the Minister charged with the
responsibility for finance;
"functions", in relation to the Agency, means functions
15conferred on the Agency by this Act or any other Act;
"grant" includes a grant by way of reimbursement under a
reimbursement arrangement;
"inspector" means an inspector appointed by the Agency under
section 46(2);
20"job redesign" means the review and reallocation by an
employer of job duties and tasks among employees;
"member", in relation to the Agency, means a member of the
Agency who is appointed under section 10(1), and includes
any individual appointed under section 14(2) to act in that
25capacity;
"officer", in relation to a public body, means an employee of the
public body and includes an individual under a secondment
arrangement which makes available the service of the
individual to the public body;
30"permanent resident of Singapore" has the meaning given by
section 2 of the Immigration Act 1959;
"public body" means a body corporate established by a public
Act for the purposes of a public function, but excludes a
9
Town Council established under section 4 of the Town
Councils Act 1988;
"reimbursement arrangement" means a written arrangement
made between the Agency and a service provider in respect
5 of the provision of any career and employment services, or
training, to a person eligible to receive any financial
incentive, support, grant, aid or assistance from the Agency
to the effect that where  - 
(a) the person so eligible receives the services or training
10 for a charge; and
(b) the service provider incurs costs and expenses in
providing the services or training to that eligible
person,
the service provider is entitled, under the arrangement, to
15 reimbursement from the Agency of the whole or part of the
charges or costs and expenses mentioned in paragraph (a)
or (b) or both;
"service provider" means a provider of career and employment
services or a provider of training;
20 "Skills Development Fund" means the Skills Development Fund
established under section 5 of the Skills Development Levy
Act 1979;
"subdelegate" means a person to whom a delegate under
section 30(2) further delegates any of the Agency's
25 functions or powers.
PART 2
ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONS AND
POWERS OF AGENCY
Skills and Workforce Development Agency
30 3. A body called the Skills and Workforce Development Agency is
established by this section.
10
Agency is body corporate
4. - (1) The Agency  - 
(a) is a body corporate with perpetual succession;
(b) may acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal
5property; and
(c) may sue and be sued in its corporate name.
(2) The Agency may use, and operate under, one or more trading
names approved by the Minister.
(3) A trading name can be an abbreviation or adaptation of the
10Agency's corporate name, or a name other than the Agency's
corporate name.
(4) The Agency must cause notice of every trading name approved
under subsection (2) to be published in the Gazette; but failure to do
so does not invalidate the approval or use of that name.
15Functions of Agency
5. - (1) The Agency has the following functions:
(a) to promote the development and enhance the quality of
career and employment services and training in Singapore,
including by collaboration and cooperation with
20universities, public sector post-secondary education
institutions, providers of career and employment
services, employers, training institutions, labour market
intermediaries and trade associations and chambers;
(b) to identify and develop the skills, knowledge and
25qualifications required of the workforce to meet the
current, emerging and future needs of Singapore, in
collaboration with employers, trade associations and
chambers and public agencies in Singapore;
(c) to coordinate and provide career and employment services
30and training to  - 
(i) support students to prepare for entry into the labour
market;
11
(ii) enable citizens of Singapore and permanent residents
of Singapore to obtain employment or
re-employment; and
(iii) enable employees to develop their career and to
5 remain in productive employment;
(d) to collaborate with and support employers, relevant
representatives of commerce or industry and public
agencies in Singapore  - 
(i) to identify and promote the acquisition and
10 enhancement of industry-specific skills;
(ii) to enhance individuals' employability by improving
their skills, knowledge and qualifications;
(iii) to carry out job redesign so as to enable improved
working arrangements and productivity;
15 (iv) to develop models for the provision of career and
employment services or for training; and
(v) to increase workforce productivity and improve the
international competitiveness of commerce or
industry;
20 (e) to promote the development of the human resources
profession and the adoption of best practices in the
management of human resources;
(f) to promote a culture of lifelong learning and career
development;
25 (g) to collect and compile data on, or undertake, direct or
support research and analysis of, career, employment and
training matters and labour market information and trends,
and to disseminate such information to the public;
(h) to represent the Government internationally in matters
30 relating to workforce development and career,
employment and training matters;
12
(i) with respect to career and employment services or training
programmes provided in Singapore (even if the services or
programmes are developed outside Singapore)  - 
(i) to accredit, or facilitate the accreditation by others in
5Singapore of, such service providers;
(ii) to raise the quality of such services and programmes;
and
(iii) to facilitate the public availability of meaningful and
accurate information about such services and
10programmes;
(j) to provide financial support to service providers or
recipients of career and employment services or training,
including by way of incentives, grants or loans, or to defray
or subsidise any costs or expenses incurred or to be
15incurred in connection with those services;
(k) to administer  - 
(i) the Private Education Act 2009 in accordance with
that Act and any directions given by the relevant
Minister charged with the responsibility for that Act;
20and
(ii) the Skills Development Fund in accordance with the
Skills Development Levy Act 1979;
(l) to advise and make recommendations to the Government
on policies and programmes relating to career,
25employment and training matters, and other measures
and laws connected with the Agency's functions under this
Act or any other written law;
(m) to perform such other functions as may be conferred on the
Agency by any other Act.
30(2) In addition to the functions conferred by this section, the
Agency may undertake such other functions as the Minister may
assign to the Agency, by notification in the Gazette, and in so
undertaking  - 
13
(a) the Agency is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this
Act; and
(b) the provisions of this Act apply to the Agency in respect of
those other functions.
5 (3) Nothing in this section imposes on the Agency, directly or
indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable by proceedings
before any court to which the Agency would not otherwise be subject.
(4) In this section  - 
"public sector post-secondary education institution" means  - 
10 (a) the Institute of Technical Education, Singapore
established under the Institute of Technical
Education Act 1992;
(b) the Nanyang Polytechnic established under the
Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992;
15 (c) the Ngee Ann Polytechnic established under the
Ngee Ann Polytechnic Act 1967;
(d) the Republic Polytechnic established under the
Republic Polytechnic Act 2002;
(e) the Singapore Polytechnic established under the
20 Singapore Polytechnic Act 1954;
(f) the Temasek Polytechnic established under the
Temasek Polytechnic Act 1990; or
(g) any company that is owned (wholly or partly) by the
Institute of Technical Education, Singapore or any
25 polytechnic mentioned in paragraphs (b) to (f);
"university" means  - 
(a) the Nanyang Technological University;
(b) the National University of Singapore;
(c) the Singapore Management University;
30 (d) the Singapore University of Technology and Design;
(e) the Singapore Institute of Technology;
14
(f) the Singapore University of Social Sciences;
(g) any other person whose function of providing
university education is determined by a public Act; or
(h) any entity that is owned (wholly or partly) or
5controlled by any university or person mentioned in
paragraphs (a) to (g).
Powers of Agency
6. - (1) The Agency has power to do all things necessary or
expedient to be done for, or in connection with, the performance of its
10functions.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the powers of the Agency
include the following:
(a) to enter into contracts, agreements or arrangements;
(b) to acquire, develop, hold and dispose of real or personal
15property;
(c) to appoint and act through agents;
(d) to employ staff and engage consultants;
(e) to publish or provide any information, or publish or
sponsor the publication of works;
20(f) to apply for, obtain and hold, whether on its own behalf or
jointly with any other person, any intellectual property
rights;
(g) to enter into agreements or arrangements for the
commercial exploitation of those intellectual property
25rights, whether by assignment, licensing or otherwise;
(h) with the approval of the Minister, to form or join in the
formation of a company, association, trust or partnership or
enter into a joint venture with any person;
(i) to be a member of a company, association, trust or
30partnership;
(j) to provide financial incentives, support, grant, aid or
assistance to any person;
15
(k) to charge for the provision of goods or services, or the
performance of work, by or on behalf of the Agency;
(l) to waive the payment of fees and charges payable to the
Agency;
5 (m) to accept grants, subsidies, donations, gifts or contributions
from any source, or raise funds by all lawful means;
(n) to enter into agreements or arrangements with persons,
authorities or organisations in Singapore or overseas for
the purposes of the Agency;
10 (o) to provide technical, consultancy or advisory services to
the Government or any other person on any matter related
to, or connected with, career, employment and training
matters;
(p) to collect, compile, analyse and disseminate information of
15 a statistical nature or otherwise concerning matters relating
to its functions;
(q) to develop, issue or adopt codes of practice and guidelines
relating to career, employment and training matters;
(r) to do any other thing that is incidental or conducive to the
20 performance of its functions.
(3) To avoid doubt, subsections (1) and (2) do not limit any other
power given to the Agency by any other provision of this Act or by
any other Act.
(4) The Agency may exercise its powers inside or outside
25 Singapore.
Directions of Minister, etc.
7. - (1) The Minister may give to the Agency any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.
(2) To avoid doubt, the Minister is entitled  - 
30 (a) to have information in the possession of the Agency; and
(b) where the information is in or on a document, to have, and
make and retain copies of, that document.
16
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the Minister may request the
Agency  - 
(a) to provide information to the Minister; or
(b) to give the Minister access to information.
5(4) The Agency must comply with a request under subsection (3).
(5) In this section, "information" means information specified, or of
a description specified, by the Minister that relates to the functions of
the Agency.
Agency's symbol, etc.
108. - (1) The Agency has the exclusive right to the use of one or
more symbols or representations as the Agency may select or devise
(each called in this section the Agency's symbol or representation),
and to display or exhibit those symbols or representations in
connection with the Agency's activities or affairs.
15(2) A person who  - 
(a) uses, without the prior written permission of the Agency, a
symbol or representation identical to the Agency's symbol
or representation; or
(b) uses a symbol or representation that so resembles the
20Agency's symbol or representation as to deceive or cause
confusion, or to be likely to deceive or to cause confusion,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.
25PART 3
CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AGENCY
Division 1  -  Appointment, resignation and removal
Membership of Agency
9. - (1) The Agency consists of at least 7 and not more than
3015 members.
17
(2) One of the members (who is not the Chairperson) may be the
Chief Executive.
Appointment of Agency members
10. - (1) Each member of the Agency is to be appointed by the
5 Minister.
(2) Every appointment must be made by instrument in writing
given to the member.
(3) The instrument must state  - 
(a) the term of the appointment; and
10 (b) the date the appointment takes effect, which must not be a
date earlier than the date the instrument is received by the
member.
Membership disqualification
11. - (1) In appointing members of the Agency, the Minister must
15 have regard to whether the members of the Agency will collectively
possess the appropriate knowledge, skills and experience to assist the
Agency to perform its functions effectively.
(2) However, the following individuals are disqualified from being
a member of the Agency:
20 (a) an undischarged bankrupt or an individual who has an
arrangement with any of his or her creditors;
(b) a Judge or judicial officer;
(c) an individual who has been sentenced to imprisonment for
a term of 6 months or more, and has not received a free
25 pardon;
(d) an individual who is  - 
(i) disqualified under section 154(1) of the Companies
Act 1967 from acting as a director, or taking part
(whether directly or indirectly) in the management of
30 a company or a foreign company referred to in that
provision during the period of disqualification in that
provision;
18
(ii) disqualified by a court order under section 149(1),
149A(1) or 154(2) of the Companies Act 1967 from
being a director, or in any way (whether directly or
indirectly) being concerned in, or taking part in, the
5management of a company or a foreign company
referred to in those provisions during the period of
disqualification in the court order;
(iii) disqualified under section 58(1) of the V ariable
Capital Companies Act 2018 from acting as a
10director, or taking part (whether directly or
indirectly) in the management of a VCC during the
period of disqualification in that provision; or
(iv) disqualified by a court order under section 56(1),
57(1) or 58(2) of the V ariable Capital Companies
15Act 2018 from being a director or in any way
(whether directly or indirectly) being concerned in,
or taking part in, the management of a VCC during
the period of disqualification in the court order;
(e) an individual who lacks capacity in respect of his or her
20duties as a member within the meaning of the Mental
Capacity Act 2008, or in respect of whom an order is made
under section 10 of the Mental Health (Care and
Treatment) Act 2008.
(3) In this section, "VCC" has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
25the V ariable Capital Companies Act 2018.
Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson
12. - (1) The Minister may, by instrument in writing, appoint  - 
(a) a member (other than the Chief Executive) to be the
Chairperson of the Agency for the period specified in the
30instrument; and
(b) one or more members (other than the Chairperson) to be a
Deputy Chairperson of the Agency for the period specified
in the instrument.
19
(2) The Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson holds office until
whichever of the following first happens:
(a) his or her term of office as Chairperson or
Deputy Chairperson (as the case may be) expires;
5 (b) he or she ceases to hold office as a member of the Agency;
(c) the Minister terminates the appointment as Chairperson or
Deputy Chairperson, as the case may be.
(3) A Deputy Chairperson has and may perform or exercise all of
the functions and powers of the Chairperson in relation to a matter
10 if  - 
(a) the Chairperson is unavailable; or
(b) the Chairperson is interested in the matter (within the
meaning given by Part 4 of the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018).
15 Premature vacancies
13. - (1) If a premature vacancy occurs in the office of any member
of the Agency, the Minister may, subject to sections 9, 10 and 11,
appoint an individual to fill the vacancy and hold that office for the
remainder of the term for which the vacating member was appointed.
20 (2) In this section, "premature vacancy", for an office, means a
vacancy that occurs in that office by virtue of section 20(1) or for any
reason other than the expiry of the term of office.
Acting Chairperson and members
14. - (1) The Minister may appoint an individual (other than the
25 Chief Executive) to act temporarily as the Chairperson during any
period, or during all periods, when the Chairperson  - 
(a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or
(b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
office.
30 (2) The Minister may appoint an individual to act temporarily as a
member of the Agency (other than the Chairperson) during any
period, or during all periods, when the member  - 
20
(a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or
(b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
office.
(3) An individual is ineligible for appointment under this section to
5act as the Chairperson or a member of the Agency if the individual is
disqualified under section 11(2) for appointment as a member.
Removal of member
15. - (1) The Minister may, at any time and without giving any
reason, remove a member of the Agency from office.
10(2) Every removal under subsection (1) must be made by written
notice given to the member with a copy to the Agency.
(3) The notice must state the date the removal takes effect, which
must not be a date earlier than the date the notice is received by the
member.
15Resignation from office
16. - (1) A member of the Agency may resign his or her office by
written notice to the Minister (with a copy to the Agency) signed by
the member.
(2) The resignation is effective when the notice in subsection (1) is
20received by the Minister or at any later time specified in the notice.
Validity of acts, etc.
17. - (1) Despite section 33 of the Interpretation Act 1965, the
performance of any function or exercise of any power of the Agency
by the Agency is not affected merely because at the relevant time  - 
25(a) there was a vacancy in the membership of the Agency,
including a vacancy arising from the failure to appoint a
member;
(b) there was some defect or irregularity existing in the
appointment or continuance in office of an individual
30purporting to be a member of the Agency; or
21
(c) there was an irregularity in the Agency's decision-making
procedure that does not affect the merits of the decision
made.
(2) The acts of an individual as a member of the Agency are not
5 affected merely because  - 
(a) there was some defect or irregularity existing in the
appointment or continuance in office of the individual
purporting to be a member of the Agency; or
(b) in the case of an individual acting in the capacity of the
10 Chairperson, a member or the Chief Executive, the
occasion for the individual so acting, or for his or her
appointment, had not arisen or had ended.
Division 2  -  Terms and conditions for members
Term of appointment
15 18. - (1) Subject to section 20, each member of the Agency holds
office for a period of 3 years or any shorter period specified in the
instrument of appointment.
(2) A member of the Agency may be re-appointed.
Remuneration, etc.
20 19. The members of the Agency may be paid, out of the funds of the
Agency, such salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister
determines.
Vacation of office
20. - (1) A member of the Agency ceases to hold office if he or
25 she  - 
(a) dies;
(b) is adjudicated a bankrupt or makes an arrangement with
any of his or her creditors;
(c) becomes otherwise disqualified from being a member
30 under section 11(2);
22
(d) is removed from office in accordance with section 15;
(e) resigns in accordance with section 16;
(f) fails, without reasonable cause, to disclose any interest
required under Division 1 of Part 4 of the Public Sector
5(Governance) Act 2018 and a notice is given under that Act
to the Minister about that default;
(g) fails to attend 3 consecutive meetings of the Agency
without the approval of the Agency; or
(h) is not re-appointed when his or her term of office expires.
10(2) A member of the Agency is not entitled to any compensation or
other payment or benefit relating to his or her ceasing, for any reason,
to hold office as a member.
Other terms and conditions
21. The Minister may specify other terms and conditions of
15appointment of a member of the Agency in the instrument of
appointment.
PART 4
DECISION-MAKING BY AGENCY
Division 1  -  Meetings
20Procedure generally
22. Subject to this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the members of the Agency may regulate their own
proceedings and business.
Notice of meetings
2523. - (1) The Agency must hold such meetings as are necessary for
the performance of its functions.
(2) The Chairperson must appoint the times and places of the
meetings of the Agency, and cause notice of those meetings to be
given to each member, including those not present when the
30appointment is made.
23
(3) The meetings of the Agency must be held in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and Part 4 of the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018.
Quorum
5 24. - (1) The quorum for a meeting of the Agency is the higher of
the following:
(a) one-third of the number of members;
(b) 3 members.
(2) No business may be transacted at a meeting of the Agency if a
10 quorum is not present.
Presiding at meetings
25. - (1) At a meeting of the Agency, the following person
presides:
(a) if there is a Chairperson and he or she is present and is not
15 interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the Public
Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter  -  the
Chairperson;
(b) if there is no Chairperson, or the Chairperson is not present
or is interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the
20 Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter, and a
Deputy Chairperson who is not so interested in the matter
is present  -  the Deputy Chairperson;
(c) in any other case  -  a member elected from among the
members present at the meeting to preside.
25 (2) The person specified in subsection (1)(b) or (c) may perform the
functions and exercise the powers of the Chairperson for the purposes
of the meeting.
24
Voting at meetings
26. - (1) Each member of the Agency has one vote.
(2) In addition to his or her general vote, the person presiding at a
meeting has, in the case of an equality of votes at the meeting, a
5casting vote.
(3) A resolution of the Agency is passed if it is agreed to by all
members present without dissent, or if a majority of the members who
are entitled to vote on the matter cast votes in favour of it.
(4) A member present at a meeting of the Agency is presumed to
10have agreed to, and to have voted in favour of, a resolution of the
Agency unless he or she expressly dissents from or votes against the
resolution at the meeting or is prevented from voting by section 26 of
the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.
Execution of documents
1527. - (1) The Agency must have a seal.
(2) The seal of the Agency is to be kept and used as authorised by
the Agency.
(3) A document is duly executed by the Agency if  - 
(a) the seal of the Agency is affixed to the document in the
20presence of one of its members who must sign the
document to attest that the seal was so affixed, and the
document is signed  - 
(i) by any 2 members generally or specially authorised
by the Agency for the purpose; or
25(ii) by one member and the Chief Executive; or
(b) the document is signed on behalf of the Agency by a person
or persons authorised to do so by the Agency and in
accordance with the terms of that authorisation.
(4) A document purporting to be executed in accordance with this
30section is presumed to be duly executed until the contrary is shown.
25
(5) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially must take
judicial notice of the imprint of the seal of the Agency appearing on a
document.
(6) When a document is produced bearing a seal purporting to be
5 the seal of the Agency, it must be presumed that the seal is the seal of
the Agency until the contrary is shown.
Division 2  -  Committees and delegation
Appointment of committees
28. - (1) The Agency may, by resolution, appoint any number of
10 committees that the Agency thinks fit for purposes which, in the
opinion of the Agency, would be better regulated and managed by
means of those committees.
(2) A committee appointed under this section may consist of any
number of individuals that the Agency thinks fit, and may include
15 individuals who are not members of the Agency.
(3) Without limiting subsection (1), the Agency may appoint
committees  - 
(a) to advise the Agency on any matters relating to the
Agency's functions and powers that are referred to the
20 committee by the Agency; or
(b) to perform or exercise any of the Agency's functions and
powers that are delegated to the committee, if the
committee includes at least one member of the Agency.
(4) An individual may not be appointed as a member of a committee
25 unless, before appointment, he or she discloses to the Agency the
details of any interest (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the
Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) the individual may have if he
or she were a member of that committee.
Proceedings of committees
30 29. - (1) Section 17 applies to a committee, and to committee
members or individuals purporting to be committee members, with
the necessary modifications.
26
(2) Subject to this Act, the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
and any restrictions by a resolution under section 28(1), a committee
may regulate its own proceedings and business.
Ability to delegate
530. - (1) The Agency may delegate any of its functions or powers,
either generally or specially and subject to any conditions or
restrictions that the Agency thinks fit, to any of the following persons:
(a) a member of the Agency;
(b) the Chief Executive, an officer of the Agency or any other
10person performing duties in the Agency;
(c) a committee that includes at least one member of the
Agency;
(d) a wholly-owned subsidiary company of the Agency;
(e) a person engaged as a contractor by the Agency.
15(2) A delegation by the Agency under subsection (1) of any of its
functions or powers  - 
(a) to a person in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) may authorise the
delegate to subdelegate the function or power to another
member or an appropriately qualified officer of the Agency
20(called in this Act a subdelegate); or
(b) to a person in subsection (1)(d) or (e) may authorise the
delegate to subdelegate the function or power to an
appropriately qualified employee of that delegate (also
called in this Act a subdelegate),
25but subject to the same restrictions, and with the same effect, as if the
subdelegate is the delegate.
(3) A delegation by the Agency under subsection (1) must be by
resolution and written notice given to the delegate.
(4) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to any function or power
30under this Act or any other Act that is declared by this Act or that
other Act to be non-delegable.
27
(5) A delegation or subdelegation in accordance with this section is
not affected by any change  - 
(a) in the membership of a committee (where the delegate is
the committee), so long as the committee includes at least
5 one member of the Agency; or
(b) in the individual appointed as the Chief Executive or
holding any specified office in the Agency (where the
delegate is the Chief Executive or the holder of the
specified office).
10 (6) In this section  - 
(a) a reference to a wholly-owned subsidiary company of the
Agency includes a company limited by guarantee the sole
member of which is the Agency; and
(b) a reference to a person performing duties in the Agency
15 includes a person performing duties in the Agency under a
contract, or under an arrangement making available
temporarily to the Agency the services of public officers.
Validity of delegate's acts, etc.
31. - (1) A delegate (or subdelegate) who purports to perform a
20 function or exercise a power under a delegation (or subdelegation)  - 
(a) is taken to do so in accordance with the terms of the
delegation (or subdelegation) under section 30, unless the
contrary is shown; and
(b) must produce evidence of the delegation (or
25 subdelegation), if reasonably requested to do so.
(2) A subdelegate to whom a function or power of the Agency is
subdelegated under section 30(2) is not authorised to further delegate
that function or power to anyone else.
28
PART 5
PERSONNEL MA TTERS
Appointment of Chief Executive
32. - (1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Agency, whose
5appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.
(2) The Agency may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the
Chief Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the
10Chief Executive  - 
(a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or
(b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
office.
Officers, etc.
1533. The Agency may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as the
Agency may determine, such other officers, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.
Delegates, subdelegates and authorised persons deemed to be
20public servants or public officers
34. - (1) Without affecting sections 20 and 21 of the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, every delegate and subdelegate of the
Agency  - 
(a) is deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the
25Penal Code 1871 in relation to his or her performance of
any function or exercise of any power of the Agency; and
(b) is, in relation to his or her administration, assessment,
collection and enforcement of payment of  - 
(i) any financial penalty imposed under section 21 or 37
30of the Private Education Act 2009; or
29
(ii) any composition sum collected under this Act,
section 17 of the Skills Development Levy
Act 1979 or section 40 of the Private Education
Act 2009,
5 (b) taken to be a public officer for the purposes of the Financial
Procedure Act 1966; and section 20 of that Act applies to
each of those delegates and subdelegates even though he or
she is not or was not employed by the Government.
(2) Without affecting sections 20 and 21 of the Public Sector
10 (Governance) Act 2018, every authorised person appointed under
section 46(1) or under section 14A(1) of the Skills Development
Levy Act 1979 is deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of
the Penal Code 1871.
Preservation of secrecy
15 35. - (1) Any member or committee member of the Agency, the
Chief Executive, any officer, consultant, agent, delegate or
subdelegate of the Agency, or any authorised person or inspector,
who has information in his or her capacity as such that would not
otherwise be available to him or her, must not disclose that
20 information to any person except  - 
(a) in the performance of the Agency's functions;
(b) with the prior authorisation from the Agency to do so;
(c) for the purposes of any proceedings for an offence under
this Act, or any report of those proceedings;
25 (d) as required by an order of court;
(e) in complying with the requirements in this Act for a
member of the Agency or a committee member to disclose
an interest; or
(f) as required or allowed by or under this Act or any other
30 Act.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
30
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.
(3) In this section and section 36  - 
"authorised person" means an authorised person appointed
5under section 46(1) or section 14A(1) of the Skills
Development Levy Act 1979;
"inspector" means an inspector appointed under section 46(2),
section 14A(2) of the Skills Development Levy Act 1979 or
section 29(1) of the Private Education Act 2009.
10Protection from personal liability
36. No liability shall lie against any member or committee member
of the Agency, the Chief Executive, any officer, delegate or
subdelegate of the Agency, or any authorised person, inspector, or
other person acting under the direction of the Agency, for anything
15which is done or purported to be done, or omitted to be done, in good
faith and with reasonable care in  - 
(a) the performance or purported performance of any function
under this Act or any other Act; or
(b) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
20Act or any other Act.
PART 6
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
Financial year
37. - (1) The financial year of the Agency begins on 1 April of
25each year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.
(2) However, the first financial year of the Agency begins on the
date of commencement of this Act and ends on 31 March of the
succeeding year.
31
Revenue and property of Agency
38. - (1) The funds and property of the Agency include  - 
(a) all moneys paid to the Agency by way of grants, subsidies,
donations, gifts and contributions for the purposes of the
5 Agency;
(b) all moneys paid to, and all other moneys and property
lawfully received by, the Agency for the purposes of the
Agency;
(c) all moneys recovered by the Agency pursuant to an order
10 of a court under section 51 or 58, that relate to the whole or
the proportion of an incentive, a grant or a loan out of
moneys not in the Skills Development Fund;
(d) all fees and charges payable to the Agency under this Act
or any other Act administered by the Agency;
15 (e) all moneys, dividends, royalties, interest or income
received from any transaction made pursuant to the
powers of the Agency under this Act or any other Act
administered by the Agency;
(f) all moneys borrowed by the Agency under this Act;
20 (g) the Skills Development Fund; and
(h) all accumulations of income derived from any property or
money mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (g).
(2) The Skills Development Fund must be managed and
administered by the Agency separately from the other funds and
25 property of the Agency.
Bank accounts
39. - (1) The Agency must open and maintain one or more accounts
with such bank or banks as the Agency thinks fit.
(2) Every such account may only be operated by a person who is
30 authorised to do so by the Agency.
32
Power of investment
40. The Agency may invest its moneys (except the Skills
Development Fund) in accordance with the standard investment
power of statutory bodies as defined in section 33A of the
5Interpretation Act 1965.
Issue of shares, etc.
41. As a consequence of  - 
(a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities in the
Agency under this Act; or
10(b) any capital injection or other investment by the
Government in the Agency in accordance with any other
written law,
the Agency must issue such shares or other securities to the Finance
Minister as the Finance Minister may direct.
15Borrowing power
42. - (1) The Agency cannot raise loans for the performance of its
functions under this Act or any other Act administered by the Agency
except in accordance with this section.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), the Agency may raise loans by  - 
20(a) mortgage, overdraft or other means, with or without
security;
(b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
in the Agency or on any other revenue receivable by the
Agency under this Act or any other written law; or
25(c) the creation and issue of debentures, bonds or any other
instrument as the Minister may approve.
(3) The Agency may raise loans  - 
(a) from the Government; or
(b) with the approval of the Minister, from another source,
30whether within or outside Singapore.
33
(4) For the purposes of this section, the power to raise loans
includes the power to make any financial agreement under which
credit facilities are granted to the Agency for the purchase of goods,
materials or things.
5 Estimates for Skills Development Fund
43. - (1) In addition to the requirements of the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, the Agency must, in every financial year,
prepare or cause to be prepared, and must adopt annual estimates of
income and expenditure for the Skills Development Fund for the
10 ensuing financial year in accordance with the Skills Development
Levy Act 1979.
(2) Supplementary estimates for the Skills Development Fund may
be adopted by the Agency where necessary.
(3) A copy of all annual estimates and supplementary estimates
15 mentioned in subsections (1) and (2) must, upon their adoption by the
Agency, be sent as soon as possible to the Minister.
Skills Development Fund to be audited separately
44. The provisions of Part 5 of the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018 do not affect the requirements in sections 20 and 21 of, and
20 the First Schedule to, the Skills Development Levy Act 1979 insofar
as the requirements apply in relation to the Skills Development Fund.
PART 7
ADMINISTRA TION AND ENFORCEMENT
Division 1  -  Preliminary matters, appointments and powers
25 Meanings of "incentive", "grant" and "loan" from Agency
45. In this Part, an incentive, a grant or a loan from the Agency
means  - 
(a) an incentive, a grant or a loan given by the Agency out of
moneys in the Skills Development Fund in accordance
30 with section 7 of the Skills Development Levy Act 1979;
34
(b) an incentive, a grant or a loan given by the Agency out of
moneys not in the Skills Development Fund; or
(c) an incentive, a grant or a loan given by the Agency out of a
combination of moneys mentioned in paragraphs (a)
5and (b).
Appointment of authorised persons and inspectors
46. - (1) The Agency may appoint an officer or agent of the
Agency, a public officer, an officer of another public body or any
other suitably qualified individual to be an authorised person for the
10purposes of section 47.
(2) The Agency may appoint any of its officers to be an inspector
for the purposes of this Act.
(3) The Agency must issue to every authorised person and inspector
an identification card that identifies him or her as an authorised
15person or inspector, as the case may be.
(4) An authorised person or inspector must produce his or her
identification card for inspection  - 
(a) before exercising a power conferred on him or her by this
Act; and
20(b) at any time during the exercise of a power conferred on him
or her by this Act, if asked to do so.
Powers to verify information collected or for grants, etc.
47. - (1) The powers under this section may be exercised only for
the purpose of inquiring into or ascertaining  - 
25(a) the truth or correctness of any statement made, or of any
information given, by a person who applies or has applied
for an incentive, a grant or a loan from the Agency; or
(b) whether any incentive, grant or loan from the Agency has
been properly applied by the person to whom the incentive,
30grant or loan is given.
(2) An authorised person may, at any reasonable time, do any of the
following, without involving any search of any property or person:
35
(a) enter any premises;
(b) photograph or film, or make audio recordings or make
sketches of, any part of the premises or anything at the
premises;
5 (c) require any person to provide or grant access to, without
charge, any document or information reasonably required
for any purpose mentioned in subsection (1);
(d) inspect and make copies of or take extracts from any such
document;
10 (e) take possession of such a document if, in the opinion of the
authorised person  - 
(i) the inspection or copying of or extraction from the
document cannot reasonably be performed without
taking possession;
15 (ii) the document may be interfered with or destroyed
unless possession is taken; or
(iii) the document may be required as evidence in any
proceedings instituted or commenced for any of the
purposes of, or in connection with, this Act;
20 (f) require any person to complete and deliver any return
specified within the time specified in the notice.
(3) The power to require a person to provide any document or
information under subsection (2)(c) includes the power  - 
(a) to require the person, or any person who is or was an
25 officer or employee of that person, to explain the document
or information;
(b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
the person to state, to the best of the person's knowledge
and belief, where it is; and
30 (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
form, to require the information to be made available to the
authorised person in legible form.
36
(4) If any document is kept in electronic form, the power of an
authorised person who is an officer of the Agency, a public officer or
an officer of another public body  - 
(a) to inspect and make copies of or take extracts from any
5document under subsection (2)(d) includes the power to  - 
(i) access any computer or other equipment (including a
mobile telephone, thumb drive or hard disk) in which
the document is stored; and
(ii) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
10concerned with the operation of, the computer or
other equipment to provide assistance in gaining
such access; and
(b) to take possession of the document under subsection (2)(e)
includes the power to  - 
15(i) make copies of or take extracts from the document in
legible or electronic form; and
(ii) transfer the information from the document to a
thumb drive, hard disk, tape or other storage device.
Powers of inspectors
2048. - (1) An inspector may, for the purpose of investigating an
offence under this Act, exercise all or any of the following powers:
(a) the powers conferred on an authorised person under
section 47(2), (3) and (4) as if a reference to an
authorised person in those provisions were a reference to
25an inspector;
(b) the powers under subsection (2).
(2) An inspector may  - 
(a) require any person whom the inspector reasonably believes
to have committed the offence to provide evidence of the
30person's identity;
(b) require, by written order, the attendance before the
inspector of any person within the limits of Singapore
37
who, from any information given or otherwise obtained by
the inspector, appears to be acquainted with the facts or
circumstances of the case;
(c) examine orally any person reasonably believed to be
5 acquainted with the facts or circumstances of the case or
with such other matter as the inspector may specify, and
reduce to writing the answer given or statement made by
that person;
(d) without charge, search for, seize and remove any document
10 (subject to paragraph (e) in relation to a document kept in
electronic form) or thing from any premises, as the
inspector may consider necessary; and
(e) if the inspector is unable to make copies of or take extracts
from any document, or transfer the information from any
15 document, in exercise of the powers under
section 47(4)(b)  - 
(i) seize the computer or other equipment (including a
mobile telephone, thumb drive or hard disk) in which
the document is stored, as evidence in proceedings
20 for an offence mentioned in subsection (1); and
(ii) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
concerned with the operation of, the computer or
other equipment to disclose any password or access
code for gaining access to the document stored in the
25 computer or other equipment.
(3) Any person examined under this section is bound to state truly
what the person knows of the facts and circumstances concerning
matters under this Act, except that the person need not say anything
that might expose him or her to a criminal charge, penalty or
30 forfeiture.
(4) A statement made by any person examined under this section
must  - 
(a) be reduced to writing;
(b) be read over to the person;
38
(c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
a language that he or she understands; and
(d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.
Division 2  -  Offences and related provisions
5Abusive funding arrangement
49. - (1) In this section and sections 50 and 51, "funding
arrangement" means any agreement, scheme, transaction or series
of transactions (whether or not legally enforceable) where the
purpose, or one of the purposes, is to obtain an incentive, a grant
10or a loan from the Agency.
(2) For the purposes of this section and sections 50 and 51, a
funding arrangement is an abusive funding arrangement if the
funding arrangement, or a transaction forming part of the funding
arrangement, results or would result in a person obtaining  - 
15(a) an incentive, a grant or a loan from the Agency that a
person would otherwise not be eligible for or would not
have obtained from the Agency; or
(b) an amount of an incentive, a grant or a loan from the
Agency higher than what a person would have been
20eligible for or would have obtained without that
arrangement or transaction.
(3) For the purposes of sections 50 and 51, the amount of wrongly
obtained funding that a person obtained or would have obtained from
the Agency in relation to an abusive funding arrangement  - 
25(a) is the amount of the incentive, grant or loan that results or
would result from the abusive funding arrangement, or a
transaction forming part of the abusive funding
arrangement; but
(b) excludes any amount the person would have obtained
30without that abusive funding arrangement or transaction.
39
Entering into or facilitation of abusive funding arrangement
50. - (1) A person commits an offence if the person  - 
(a) enters into or facilitates a funding arrangement that is an
abusive funding arrangement;
5 (b) knows or has reason to believe that the funding
arrangement is an abusive funding arrangement; and
(c) intends by entering into or facilitating that abusive funding
arrangement to dishonestly or fraudulently induce the
Agency to give an incentive, a grant or a loan to the person,
10 or to any other person or persons.
(2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
on conviction  - 
(a) pay a penalty equal to the amount of wrongly obtained
funding that the person obtained, or would have obtained,
15 from the Agency as a result of the abusive funding
arrangement entered into or facilitated by the person; and
(b) be liable to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(a), it is irrelevant whether the
20 person convicted of the offence obtained the wrongly obtained
funding from the Agency for the benefit of that person, or for the
benefit of any other person or persons.
(4) The penalty mentioned in subsection (2)(a) is recoverable in
accordance with section 319 (other than section 319(1)(a)) of the
25 Criminal Procedure Code 2010 as if it were a fine.
(5) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), a person facilitates a
funding arrangement if the person is  - 
(a) a training provider or an employer who designs, organises
or manages the funding arrangement or a transaction
30 forming part of the funding arrangement;
(b) either one of the following employees who participates in,
or by the employee's act or omission enables or aids, the
40
funding arrangement or a transaction forming part of the
funding arrangement:
(i) an employee of the training provider mentioned in
paragraph (a);
5(ii) an employee of the employer mentioned in
paragraph (a);
(c) a person who, by attending a course or programme,
participates in, enables or aids the funding arrangement or
a transaction forming part of the funding arrangement;
10(d) a marketing agent who publishes, disseminates or
communicates any information, by any means or in any
form, for the purpose of inducing or encouraging (whether
directly or indirectly) any other person to enter into the
funding arrangement or a transaction forming part of the
15funding arrangement; or
(e) any other person who  - 
(i) designs, organises, manages or participates in, or by
the person's act or omission enables or aids, the
funding arrangement or a transaction forming part of
20the funding arrangement; or
(ii) publishes, disseminates or communicates any
information, by any means or in any form, for the
purpose of inducing or encouraging (whether
directly or indirectly) any other person to enter into
25the funding arrangement or a transaction forming
part of the funding arrangement.
(6) However, a person does not facilitate a funding arrangement
under subsection (5) only by reason that the person in the ordinary
course of business  - 
30(a) provides services relating to, or provides connections for,
the transmission or routing of data;
(b) provides, or operates facilities for, online services or
network access; or
41
(c) provides a service that  - 
(i) enables the end-users of that service to communicate
with other end-users; or
(ii) enables the publication, dissemination or
5 communication of information or documents by
end-users of that service,
(c) whether by means of email, by use of a mobile telephone or
other device, or by use of application software or
otherwise.
10 (7) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is
presumed, until the contrary is proved, that a person has the intention
mentioned in subsection (1)(c) if the funding arrangement, or a
transaction forming part of the funding arrangement, involves any
step or steps (other than under subsection (6)) which is or are capable
15 of assisting the person or any other person who enters into that
funding arrangement or transaction to obtain the incentive, grant or
loan.
(8) To avoid doubt, it is not a defence in any proceedings for an
offence under subsection (1) that the accused did not obtain any
20 incentive, grant or loan from the Agency.
Recovery by Agency of wrongly obtained funding
51. - (1) The court before which a person (A) is convicted of an
offence under section 50(1) may, in addition to imposing the penalty
and punishment under section 50(2), order A to repay to the Agency
25 the amount of wrongly obtained funding that A obtained from the
Agency (whether for A's benefit, or for the benefit of any other person
or persons) as a result of the abusive funding arrangement entered
into or facilitated by A.
(2) Where the court makes an order under subsection (1)  - 
30 (a) the court is to certify the amount of wrongly obtained
funding to be repaid to the Agency; and
(b) the Agency may recover the amount so certified in any
civil court of competent jurisdiction as if the amount were
a judgment debt due to the Agency.
42
(3) The Agency must pay the amount of wrongly obtained funding
recovered under this section in the following manner:
(a) where the amount of wrongly obtained funding is in
relation to an incentive, a grant or a loan out of moneys in
5the Skills Development Fund  -  the recovered amount
must be paid into the Skills Development Fund;
(b) where the amount of wrongly obtained funding is in
relation to an incentive, a grant or a loan out of moneys not
in the Skills Development Fund  -  the recovered amount
10must be paid into the funds of the Agency under
section 38(1) excluding the Skills Development Fund
(called in this subsection the general moneys of the
Agency);
(c) where the amount of wrongly obtained funding is in
15relation to an incentive, a grant or a loan out of a
combination of moneys mentioned in paragraphs (a) and
(b)  -  the recovered amount must be paid into the Skills
Development Fund and to the general moneys of the
Agency in the respective proportions that moneys were
20withdrawn from the Skills Development Fund and the
general moneys of the Agency for that incentive, grant or
loan.
False or misleading advertisements
52. - (1) A person commits an offence if  - 
25(a) the person publishes or causes to be published, or
distributes or causes to be distributed, any advertisement
that is false or misleading in a material particular; and
(b) the person knows or ought reasonably to have known that,
or is reckless as to whether, the advertisement is false or
30misleading in a material particular.
(2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.
43
(3) For the purposes of subsection (1), a person publishes, or causes
to be published, an advertisement if the advertisement is made
accessible to, or accessed by, persons by means of  - 
(a) a newspaper, magazine, journal or any other periodical;
5 (b) a sound or television broadcast transmitted for reception;
or
(c) any other means of broadcasting or communication for
circulation or reception.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (1), an advertisement is false or
10 misleading in a material particular if the advertisement  - 
(a) falsely represents that a person is eligible for, or has been
given, an incentive, a grant or a loan from the Agency in
respect of a course or programme;
(b) falsely represents that the Agency has accredited, or
15 facilitated the accreditation by others in Singapore of, a
provider of a course or programme;
(c) falsely represents that the Agency has accredited, or
facilitated the accreditation by others in Singapore of, a
course or programme;
20 (d) falsely represents that a provider of a course or
programme, or a course or programme, is approved or
endorsed by the Agency;
(e) contains any false or misleading information concerning a
provider of a course or programme who is eligible for, or
25 has been given, an incentive, a grant or a loan from the
Agency; or
(f) concerns a course or programme in respect of which a
person is eligible for, or has been given, an incentive, a
grant or a loan from the Agency, and contains any false or
30 misleading description of, or false or misleading
information concerning  - 
(i) the curriculum, modules or subjects to be covered by
that course or programme; or
44
(ii) the competencies, expertise or skills to be advanced
by that course or programme.
(5) In this section and section 53  - 
"advertisement" means any writing, still or moving picture,
5sign, symbol (whether 3-dimensional or 2-dimensional) or
other visual image, or any audible message, or any
combination of 2 or more of those things, that gives
publicity to, or otherwise promotes or is intended to
promote, a course or programme;
10"distribute" includes  - 
(a) in relation to a printed advertisement  -  to deliver or
send to one or more persons, or to leave at any
premises or on any vehicle; and
(b) in relation to an advertisement in electronic form, in
15the form of an audio or a visual recording, or in a
combination of any of those forms  -  to transmit to
one or more persons by use of the Internet or a mobile
telephone network.
Remedial measures for false or misleading advertisements
2053. - (1) This section applies where the Agency is of the opinion
that a person has published or caused to be published, or distributed or
caused to be distributed, any advertisement for which an offence
under section 52(1) may have been committed (called in this section
the defaulting person).
25(2) The Agency may (without compensation) give a direction to the
defaulting person to do all or any of the following:
(a) take all practicable steps to remove the advertisement;
(b) modify the advertisement in the manner specified or
approved by the Agency;
30(c) cease the publication or distribution of any other
advertisement which is wholly or substantially the same
as the advertisement mentioned in subsection (1);
45
(d) publish or cause to be published, or distribute or cause to
be distributed, a corrective advertisement in the manner,
and containing any information, specified or approved by
the Agency.
5 (3) Before the Agency gives a direction to the defaulting person
under subsection (2), the Agency must, unless the Agency considers
it not practicable or desirable to do so, give written notice to the
defaulting person  - 
(a) stating that the Agency intends to give a direction to the
10 defaulting person under this section; and
(b) specifying the time within which written representations
may be made to the Agency with respect to the proposed
direction.
(4) The Agency may, after considering any written representation
15 made pursuant to subsection (3)(b), decide to give or not to give, or to
modify, the direction as the Agency considers appropriate.
(5) The Agency must serve on the defaulting person a notice of the
Agency's decision under subsection (4).
(6) Every defaulting person must comply with a direction given by
20 the Agency to the defaulting person under subsection (2).
(7) A defaulting person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to
comply with a direction given by the Agency under subsection (2)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction  - 
(a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
25 term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and
(b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.
(8) Where the defaulting person fails to comply with a direction
30 given by the Agency under subsection (2), the Agency may  - 
(a) take all steps as the Agency considers reasonable and
necessary to give effect to the direction; and
46
(b) recover all costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the
Agency in so doing from the defaulting person, as a civil
debt due to the Agency.
Refund by funding recipient for cancelled course or
5programme, etc.
54. - (1) This section applies where  - 
(a) the Agency has given an incentive, a grant or a loan to any
person (called in this section a funding recipient) in
connection with a course or programme;
10(b) a person (called in this section a trainee) takes part in, or
intends to take part in, a course or programme provided or
to be provided by the funding recipient;
(c) the course or programme  - 
(i) does not start on the scheduled starting day; or
15(ii) ceases to be provided at any time after it starts but
before it is completed; and
(d) the trainee has not withdrawn from the course or
programme before the default day.
(2) The Agency may give a direction to a funding recipient to make
20either or both of the following refunds by the time specified in the
direction for that refund:
(a) a refund to a trainee or any other person of the money
received by the funding recipient before the default day
from that trainee or other person (as the case may be) in
25payment for that trainee taking part in the course or
programme;
(b) a refund to the Agency of the amount of the incentive,
grant or loan given by the Agency to the funding recipient
in connection with each trainee taking part in the course or
30programme.
(3) Before the Agency gives a direction to the funding recipient
under subsection (2), the Agency must, unless the Agency considers
47
it not practicable or desirable to do so, give written notice to the
funding recipient  - 
(a) stating that the Agency intends to give a direction to the
funding recipient under this section; and
5 (b) specifying the time (being at least 14 days or any other
period of time that may be prescribed in substitution)
within which written representations may be made to the
Agency with respect to the proposed direction.
(4) The Agency may, after considering any written representation
10 made pursuant to subsection (3)(b), decide to give or not to give, or to
modify, the direction as the Agency considers appropriate.
(5) The Agency must serve on the funding recipient a notice of the
Agency's decision under subsection (4).
(6) Every funding recipient must comply with a direction given by
15 the Agency to the funding recipient under subsection (2).
(7) Subsection (2) applies despite anything to the contrary
contained in any agreement between the funding recipient and the
trainee concerned, or between the funding recipient and any person
who paid for the course or programme on behalf of the trainee.
20 (8) A funding recipient who, without reasonable excuse, fails to
comply with a direction given by the Agency under subsection (2)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.
25 (9) In this section  - 
"default day", in relation to a course or programme, means  - 
(a) if subsection (1)(c)(i) applies  -  the scheduled
starting day for the course or programme; or
(b) if subsection (1)(c)(ii) applies  -  the day on which
30 the course or programme ceases to be provided;
"scheduled starting day", in relation to a course or programme,
means the day on which the course or programme was
scheduled to start.
48
Appeal to Minister against directions under sections 53 and 54
55. - (1) A person who is given a direction by the Agency under
section 53 or 54 and is aggrieved by the Agency's decision to give the
direction (called in this section an appellant) may appeal to the
5Minister against the Agency's direction in accordance with this
section.
(2) An appeal under this section must be  - 
(a) in writing and specify the grounds on which it is made; and
(b) made within 14 days (or any other period of time that may
10be prescribed in substitution) after the date the direction
appealed against is given to the appellant.
(3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (2).
Decision of Minister on appeal
1556. - (1) After considering an appeal under section 55, the Minister
may  - 
(a) reject the appeal and confirm the Agency's decision to give
the direction; or
(b) allow the appeal and vary or revoke the direction that is the
20subject of the appeal.
(2) The Minister's decision on an appeal is final.
(3) Every appellant mentioned in section 55(1) must be notified of
the Minister's decision under subsection (1).
(4) An appeal under section 55 does not affect the operation of the
25direction appealed against or prevent the taking of action to
implement the direction and, unless otherwise directed by the
Minister, the direction appealed against must be complied with
until the determination of the appeal.
Designate may hear appeal in place of Minister
3057. - (1) The Minister may designate any of the following
office-holders in his or her Ministry to hear and determine, in the
Minister's place, any appeal made under section 55:
49
(a) the Second Minister, if any;
(b) any Minister of State or Senior Minister of State;
(c) any Parliamentary Secretary or Senior Parliamentary
Secretary.
5 (2) A reference to the Minister in section 55 or 56 includes a
reference to a person designated under subsection (1).
False or misleading information, statement or document, etc.
58. - (1) A person must not  - 
(a) in relation to the person's application, or in support of an
10 application by another, for any incentive, grant or loan
from the Agency, make, or authorise the making of, a
statement that the person knows to be false or misleading
in any material particular;
(b) in providing any document or information required under
15 section 47 or 48, or to the Agency in connection with any
function or power of the Agency under this Act, provide
any document or information that the person knows to be
false or misleading in any material particular; or
(c) intentionally alter, suppress or destroy any document or
20 information which the person is required to provide under
section 47 or 48.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
25 both.
(3) To avoid doubt, it is not a defence in any proceedings for an
offence under subsection (2) for contravening subsection (1)(a) that
the accused did not obtain any incentive, grant or loan from the
Agency.
30 (4) The court before which a person is convicted of an offence of
contravening subsection (1)(a) may, in addition to imposing the
punishment under subsection (2), order the person to repay to the
Agency an amount  - 
50
(a) equivalent to the amount of the incentive, grant or loan that
the Agency gave to the person as a result of the false or
misleading statement mentioned in subsection (1)(a); but
(b) which excludes any amount that the Agency would have
5given the person without that false or misleading
statement.
(5) Section 51(2) and (3) applies to an order of the court for the
repayment under subsection (4), with the necessary modifications.
Penalty for obstructing member, officer, etc.
1059. - (1) A person must not  - 
(a) obstruct or hinder a member, an officer, an agent or a
delegate or subdelegate of the Agency, an authorised
person or an inspector, who is performing or exercising any
function or power under this Act; or
15(b) neglect or refuse to attend before an inspector as required
under section 48, or otherwise fail to comply with a lawful
demand of an inspector under that section.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
20$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.
PART 8
GENERAL
Composition of offences
2560. - (1) The Chief Executive, or an officer of the Agency
authorised in writing by the Agency, may compound any offence
under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by
collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:
30(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
prescribed for the offence;
51
(b) $2,000.
(2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.
(3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
5 Consolidated Fund.
Offences by corporations
61. - (1) Where, in any proceedings for an offence under this Act, it
is necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that  - 
10 (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
apparent authority; and
(b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,
is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.
15 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person  - 
(a) who is  - 
(i) an officer of the corporation; or
(ii) an individual involved in the management of the
20 corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
of the corporation in relation to the commission of
the offence; and
(b) who  - 
(i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
25 effect the commission of the offence;
(ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
commission of the offence by the corporation; or
52
(iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
5commission of that offence,
shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.
(3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
10offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.
(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of  - 
(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or
(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
15regarding the admissibility of evidence.
(5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.
(6) In this section  - 
20"corporation" includes a limited liability partnership within the
meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
Act 2005;
"officer", in relation to a corporation, means any director,
partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
25officer of the corporation, and includes  - 
(a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and
(b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
members, any of those members as if the member
were a director of the corporation;
30"state of mind" of a person includes  - 
(a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
of the person; and
53
(b) the person's reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
or purpose.
Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
62. - (1) Where, in any proceedings for an offence under this Act, it
5 is necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated
association or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct,
evidence that  - 
(a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
10 or her actual or apparent authority; and
(b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,
is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.
(2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
15 an offence under this Act, a person  - 
(a) who is  - 
(i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
member of its governing body;
(ii) a partner in the partnership; or
20 (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
unincorporated association or partnership and in a
position to influence the conduct of the
unincorporated association or partnership (as the
case may be) in relation to the commission of the
25 offence; and
(b) who  - 
(i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
effect the commission of the offence;
(ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
30 knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
commission of the offence by the unincorporated
association or partnership; or
54
(iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
offence by the unincorporated association or
partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
be or is being committed, and failed to take all
5reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
that offence,
shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.
10(3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.
15(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of  - 
(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or
(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
regarding the admissibility of evidence.
(5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
20of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.
(6) In this section  - 
"officer", in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
25a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
member of a committee of the unincorporated association,
and includes  - 
(a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
president, secretary or member of a committee of the
30unincorporated association; and
(b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;
"partner" includes a person purporting to act as a partner;
55
"state of mind" of a person includes  - 
(a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
of the person; and
(b) the person's reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
5 or purpose.
Jurisdiction of courts
63. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate's Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for the offence.
10 Service of documents
64. - (1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.
(2) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
15 served on an individual may be served  - 
(a) by giving it to the individual personally;
(b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
specified by the individual for the service of documents
generally, or specifically for the document, or, if no address
20 is so specified, the individual's residential address or
business address;
(c) by leaving it at the individual's residential address with an
adult apparently resident there, or at the individual's
business address with an adult apparently employed there;
25 (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
at the individual's residential address or business address;
or
(e) by sending it by email to the individual's last email
address.
30 (3) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a partnership (other than a limited liability partnership)
may be served  - 
56
(a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer, or an
authorised representative, of the partnership;
(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
to, the partnership's business address; or
5(c) by sending it by email to the partnership's last email
address.
(4) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a body corporate (including a limited liability partnership)
or an unincorporated association may be served  - 
10(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
manager of the limited liability partnership;
(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
15the body corporate or unincorporated association; or
(c) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
corporate or unincorporated association.
(5) Service of a document under subsection (2), (3) or (4) takes
effect  - 
20(a) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
it is sent; and
(b) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
25undelivered).
(6) In addition, a document permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on an individual, partnership, body corporate or
unincorporated association may be served by giving an electronic
notice to the individual, partnership, body corporate or
30unincorporated association (called in this section an addressee) by
the addressee's chosen means of notification, stating that the
document is available and how the addressee may use the
addressee's chosen means of access to access the document's
contents.
57
(7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice using the person's chosen means of
notification may be effected only with the person's prior written
consent to service in that way.
5 (8) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.
(9) In this section  - 
"authorised representative", in relation to a partnership (other
than a limited liability partnership), means any person
10 authorised to accept service of documents on behalf of the
partnership;
"business address" means  - 
(a) in the case of an individual, the individual's usual or
last known place of business in Singapore; or
15 (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
liability partnership), the partnership's principal or
last known place of business in Singapore;
"chosen means of access", for an addressee on whom is or is to
be served a document permitted or required by or under this
20 Act, means an electronic means that the addressee agrees
with the person serving the document as the means by which
the addressee may access that document's contents;
"chosen means of notification", for an addressee on whom is or
is to be served a document permitted or required by or under
25 this Act, means an electronic means that the addressee
nominates to the person serving the document as the means
by which the addressee may be notified that such a document
has been served on the addressee;
"document" includes a direction, notice or order permitted or
30 required by or under this Act to be served;
"last email address" means the last email address given by the
addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
document as the email address for the service of documents
under this Act;
58
"residential address" means an individual's usual or last known
place of residence in Singapore.
Regulations
65. The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
5regulations prescribing matters required or permitted by this Act to be
prescribed, or necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying
out or giving effect to this Act.
Codes of practice and guidelines
66. - (1) The Agency may, from time to time  - 
10(a) issue one or more codes of practice or guidelines
applicable to service providers generally or particular
types of service providers;
(b) approve as a code of practice or guidelines applicable to
service providers generally or particular types of service
15providers any document prepared by a person other than
the Agency if the Agency considers the document as
suitable for this purpose; or
(c) amend or revoke any code of practice or guidelines issued
under paragraph (a) or approved under paragraph (b),
20relating to any career, employment and training matters.
(2) If any provision in any code of practice or guidelines is
inconsistent with any provision of this Act, such provision, to the
extent of the inconsistency  - 
(a) is to have effect subject to the provisions of this Act; or
25(b) having regard to the provisions of this Act, is not to have
effect.
(3) Where any code of practice or guidelines are issued, approved,
amended or revoked by the Agency under subsection (1), the Agency
must  - 
30(a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
revocation (as the case may be) of the code of practice or
guidelines in any manner that will secure adequate
59
publicity for such issue, approval, amendment or
revocation;
(b) specify in the notice referred to in paragraph (a) the date of
issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case may
5 be; and
(c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice or guidelines
remain in force, copies of the code of practice or
guidelines, and of all amendments to the code of practice
or guidelines, are available for inspection by any service
10 provider.
(4) No code of practice or guidelines, no amendment to an approved
code of practice or guidelines, and no revocation of any such
approved code of practice or guidelines has any force or effect as an
approved code of practice or guidelines until the notice relating to the
15 code of practice or guidelines is published in accordance with
subsection (3).
(5) Any code of practice or guideline issued or approved under this
section does not have legislative effect.
PART 9
20 TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS AND
PERSONNEL TO AGENCY
Interpretation of this Part
67. In this Part  - 
"agreement" includes an arrangement or undertaking;
25 "asset", in relation to the transferor, means property of any kind
(whether tangible or intangible, whether arising from,
accruing under, created or evidenced by or the subject of,
an instrument or otherwise and whether actual or contingent)
of the transferor on the eve of the transfer date and includes,
30 without limitation, any  - 
(a) legal or equitable interest in real or personal property,
whether situated in or outside Singapore;
60
(b) chose in action;
(c) money or securities;
(d) plant and equipment, whether situated in or outside
Singapore;
5(e) intellectual property;
(f) infrastructure, whether situated in or outside
Singapore;
(g) records and information (including data) in any form;
and
10(h) right;
"liability", in relation to the transferor, means any liability, duty
or obligation (whether actual or contingent, liquidated or
unliquidated, and whether owed alone or jointly, or jointly
and severally, with any other person) of the transferor on the
15eve of the transfer date;
"records", in relation to the transferor, means registers, papers,
documents, minutes, receipts, books of account and other
records, however compiled, recorded or stored, of the
transferor existing on the eve of the transfer date;
20"right", in relation to the transferor, means any right, power,
privilege or immunity of the transferor on the eve of the
transfer date;
"SkillsFuture Singapore Agency" or "SSG" means the public
body of that name established by section 3 of the SkillsFuture
25Singapore Agency Act 2016 as in force before the date of
commencement of section 73;
"SSG employee" means an individual who, on the eve of the
transfer date, is an employee of the SSG;
"transfer date" means the date of commencement of this Part;
30"transferor" means one of the following, as the case may be:
(a) the SSG;
(b) the WSG;
61
"Workforce Singapore Agency" or "WSG" means the public
body of that name established by section 3 of the Workforce
Singapore Agency Act 2003 as in force before the date of
commencement of section 74;
5 "WSG employee" means an individual who, on the eve of the
transfer date, is an employee of the WSG.
Transfer of undertakings to Agency
68. - (1) On the transfer date, the following assets and liabilities are
transferred to the Agency:
10 (a) all assets and liabilities of the SSG;
(b) all assets and liabilities of the WSG.
(2) When any asset or liability of the transferor is transferred to the
Agency under subsection (1), the following provisions have effect:
(a) the asset vests in the Agency without the need for any
15 further conveyance, transfer, assignment or assurance;
(b) the liability becomes the liability of the Agency;
(c) all legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
liability that are pending immediately before the transfer
date by or against the transferor (or a predecessor of the
20 transferor) are taken to be proceedings pending by or
against the Agency;
(d) any legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
liability which could have been started immediately before
the transfer date by or against the transferor (or a
25 predecessor of the transferor) may be started by or
against the Agency;
(e) a judgment or order of a court or other tribunal obtained
before the transfer date by or against the transferor (or a
predecessor of the transferor) relating to that asset or
30 liability becomes enforceable by or against the Agency;
(f) any document in any legal or other proceedings relating to
that asset or liability that has been served on or by the
transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) before the
62
transfer date is taken, where appropriate, to have been
served on or by the Agency;
(g) any act, matter or thing done or omitted to be done before
the transfer date in relation to that asset or liability by, to or
5in respect of the transferor (or a predecessor of the
transferor) is (to the extent to which that act, matter or
thing has any force or effect) taken to have been done or
omitted to be done by, to or in respect of the Agency;
(h) a reference to the transferor (or a predecessor of the
10transferor) in any Act, any instrument made under any Act,
any agreement or any document of any kind is taken to be
or includes (to the extent to which the reference relates to
that asset or liability) a reference to the Agency;
(i) any agreement relating to that asset or liability and to
15which the transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) is a
party becomes enforceable by or against the Agency.
(3) The operation of this section does not  - 
(a) constitute a breach of, or default under, any Act or other
law, or any agreement, or otherwise a civil wrong or
20criminal wrong;
(b) constitute a breach of any duty of confidence (whether
arising by contract, in equity, by custom, or in any other
way);
(c) constitute a breach of any contractual provision
25prohibiting, restricting or regulating the assignment or
transfer of assets or liabilities or the disclosure of any
information;
(d) terminate an agreement or obligation, or fulfil any
condition that allows a person to terminate or otherwise
30releases a person from any agreement or obligation, or give
rise to any right or remedy in respect of any agreement or
obligation;
(e) cause any contract or other instrument to be void or
otherwise unenforceable;
63
(f) frustrate any contract;
(g) release a surety or other obligor or obligee wholly or in part
from an obligation; or
(h) constitute an event of breach of, or default under, any
5 contract or other instrument.
(4) No attornment to the Agency by a lessee of the transferor is
required.
Transfer of employees, etc., to Agency
69. - (1) On the transfer date, every SSG employee and every
10 WSG employee  - 
(a) stops being an employee of the SSG or the WSG, as the
case may be; and
(b) is each transferred to the service, and becomes an
employee, of the Agency on terms no less favourable
15 than those enjoyed by the employee on the eve of the
transfer date.
(2) A certificate signed by the Minister certifying whether an
individual named in the certificate has been transferred to the service
of the Agency under subsection (1) is admissible in evidence in any
20 proceedings as proof of the matters stated in the certificate.
(3) The transfer under subsection (1) of an SSG employee or a
WSG employee (as the case may be) to the service of the Agency  - 
(a) does not interrupt continuity of that employee's service;
(b) does not constitute a retrenchment or redundancy of that
25 employee's employment by the transferor; and
(c) does not entitle that employee to any compensation or
other payment or benefit merely because he or she stops
being employed by the transferor.
(4) Nothing in this section prevents  - 
30 (a) any of the terms and conditions of employment of an
individual transferred to the service of the Agency under
subsection (1) from being altered by or under any law,
64
award or agreement with effect from any time after the
transfer date; and
(b) an individual transferred to the service of the Agency under
subsection (1) from resigning from that service any time
5after the transfer date, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of his or her employment then applicable.
(5) To avoid doubt, section 18A of the Employment Act 1968 does
not apply to the transfer under this Part of any SSG employee or any
WSG employee to the service of the Agency.
10(6) On the transfer date, every public officer or employee of any
other public body seconded to the SSG or the WSG, under either of
the following that is in force on the eve of the transfer date, continues
on secondment to the Agency:
(a) an arrangement made by the Government;
15(b) an agreement or arrangement between the Government or
that other public body and the SSG or the WSG, as the case
may be.
General preservation of employment terms, etc.
70. - (1) When an SSG employee or a WSG employee is
20transferred to the service of the Agency under section 69(1) (called
in this section a transferred employee), the transferred employee's
service with the Agency must be regarded for all purposes as having
been continuous with his or her service with the transferor
immediately before the transfer date.
25(2) On the transfer date  - 
(a) a transferred employee retains all accrued rights as if his or
her employment with the Agency were a continuation of
employment with the transferor;
(b) the liabilities of the transferor relating to the transferred
30employee's accrued rights to annual, sick, maternity or
other leave and superannuation become the liabilities of
the Agency; and
65
(c) a reference to the transferor in the contract of employment
that had effect in relation to the transferred employee
immediately before the transfer date is taken to be, or
includes, a reference to the Agency.
5 (3) Until the time the Agency draws up the terms and conditions of
employment for the transferred employee, the Agency is to be
regarded as employing the transferred employee on the same terms
and conditions of his or her employment with the transferor on the
eve of the transfer date.
10 (4) Any term or condition of employment drawn up by the Agency
relating to the length of service of the transferred employee with the
Agency must recognise the length of service of that employee with
the transferor (including any previous service of that employee taken
to be service with the transferor) to be service with the Agency.
15 (5) For any conduct of the transferred employee when he or she was
employed by the transferor which would have rendered that
employee liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired,
dismissed or otherwise punished by the transferor, the Agency
may  - 
20 (a) start any disciplinary proceedings against that employee;
(b) carry on and complete any disciplinary proceedings started
by the transferor against that employee if those
proceedings are pending on the eve of the transfer date; and
(c) reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or otherwise
25 punish that employee as if that employee were not
transferred.
(6) Where, on the eve of the transfer date, any matter about the
conduct of the transferred employee during his or her employment
with the transferor concerned  - 
30 (a) was in the course of being heard or investigated by a
committee of the transferor acting under due authority; or
66
(b) had been heard or investigated, but no order, ruling or
direction had been made, by that committee,
that committee must complete the hearing or investigation and make
such order, ruling or direction as it could have made under the
5authority vested in it before that date, and that order, ruling or
direction is to be regarded as an order, ruling or direction of the
Agency.
Transfer of records
71. On the transfer date, the following records become the records
10of the Agency:
(a) all records of the SSG;
(b) all records of the WSG.
Confirmation of transfers
72. - (1) If any dispute arises  - 
15(a) as to whether an asset or a liability, or a record, is
transferred under section 68 or 71; or
(b) as to whether any, or part of any, contract or document
relates to an asset or a liability, or a record, transferred
under section 68 or 71,
20the Finance Minister may determine the matter and must provide the
concerned parties with written notice of that determination.
(2) The Finance Minister's determination under subsection (1) is
final and binding on the transferor concerned and the Agency.
PART 10
25REPEAL
Repeal of SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016
73. Repeal the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016.
Repeal of Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003
74. Repeal the Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003.
67
PART 11
CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELA TED AMENDMENTS
TO OTHER ACTS
Consequential amendment to Enterprise Singapore Board
5 Act 2018
75. In the Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018, in section 5(1),
replace paragraph (g) with  - 
"(g) to cooperate and collaborate with the Skills and
Workforce Development Agency established by
10 section 3 of the Skills and Workforce Development
Agency Act 2026 in the discharge of its functions
under that Act;".
Consequential amendments to Income Tax Act 1947
76. In the Income Tax Act 1947  - 
15 (a) in section 13(1)(zx), delete "Workforce Singapore's";
(b) in section 14O(6), replace the definition of "accredited"
with  - 
" "accredited", in relation to a course, means
accredited  - 
20 (a) by the Singapore Workforce
Development Agency before
4 October 2016;
(b) by the SkillsFuture Singapore
Agency on or after 4 October 2016
25 and before the date of
commencement of section 73 of the
Skills and Workforce Development
Agency Act 2026; or
(c) by the Skills and Workforce
30 Development Agency;";
68
(c) in section 14ZG(5), in the definition of "eligible course", in
paragraph (a), after "SkillsFuture Singapore Agency",
insert "or the Skills and Workforce Development Agency";
(d) in section 14ZG(5), in the definition of "qualifying training
5expenditure", after "SkillsFuture Singapore Agency",
insert "or the Skills and Workforce Development Agency";
(e) in section 14ZG(5), after the definition of "qualifying
training expenditure", insert  - 
" "Skills and Workforce Development Agency"
10means the Skills and Workforce Development
Agency established by section 3 of the Skills and
Workforce Development Agency Act 2026;";
(f) in section 14ZG(5), replace the definition of "SkillsFuture
Singapore Agency" with  - 
15" "SkillsFuture Singapore Agency" means the
SkillsFuture Singapore Agency established by
section 3 of the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency
Act 2016 before the date of repeal of that Act.";
and
20(g) in section 14ZG(6), replace "or a statutory board
(including the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency)" with
", the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency, the Skills and
Workforce Development Agency or any other statutory
board".
25Consequential amendment to Institute of Technical Education
Act 1992
77. In the Institute of Technical Education Act 1992, in section 5,
replace paragraph (c) with  - 
"(c) cooperating and collaborating with the Skills and
30Workforce Development Agency established by
section 3 of the Skills and Workforce Development
Agency Act 2026 in the discharge of its functions
under that Act.".
69
Consequential and related amendments to Private Education
Act 2009
78. In the Private Education Act 2009  - 
(a) in section 2, replace the definition of "Agency" with  - 
5 " "Agency" means the Skills and Workforce
Development Agency established by section 3
of the Skills and Workforce Development
Agency Act 2026;";
(b) in section 2, replace the definition of "Chief Executive"
10 with  - 
" "Chief Executive" has the meaning given by
section 2 of the Skills and Workforce
Development Agency Act 2026;";
(c) in section 2, after the definition of "private education
15 institution", insert  - 
" "private education institution for adult learners"
means a private education institution  - 
(a) in which more than half of the
students enrolled are 25 years of age
20 or above, such enrolment to be
determined at the frequency and in
the manner prescribed; and
(b) that does not offer or provide any
education that is normally for a
25 person who is below 16 years of
age;";
(d) in section 4(1), replace "SkillsFuture Singapore Agency
Act 2016" with "Skills and Workforce Development
Agency Act 2026";
30 (e) in section 4(2), in paragraph (c), delete "and" at the end;
(f) in section 4(2), in paragraph (d), replace the full-stop with
"; and";
(g) in section 4(2), after paragraph (d), insert  - 
70
"(e) to any direction given by the Minister as to
the performance by the Agency of its
functions under this Act and, in any
matter relating to private education
5institutions for adult learners, to any
direction given by the Minister charged
with the responsibility for that matter."; and
(h) in section 5, replace "section 34 of the SkillsFuture
Singapore Agency Act 2016" with "section 28 of the
10Skills and Workforce Development Agency Act 2026".
Consequential amendments to Skills Development Levy
Act 1979
79. In the Skills Development Levy Act 1979  - 
(a) in section 2, replace the definition of "Agency" with  - 
15" "Agency" means the Skills and Workforce
Development Agency established by section 3
of the Skills and Workforce Development
Agency Act 2026;"; and
(b) in section 5(2)(ba), after "section 57D or 58 of the
20SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016", insert "(as in
force immediately before the date of commencement of
section 73 of the Skills and Workforce Development
Agency Act 2026) or section 51 or 58 of the Skills and
Workforce Development Agency Act 2026".
25Consequential amendments to other Acts
80. - (1) In the Accounting Standards Act 2007, in the Schedule  - 
(a) replace item 59 with  - 
. "59. Skills and Workforce
Development Agency
Skills and Workforce Development
Agency Act 2026"; and
30(b) delete item 63.
(2) In the Attorney-General (Additional Functions) Act 2014, in the
Schedule, replace item 23 with  - 
71
"23. Skills and Workforce Development Agency".
(3) In the Central Provident Fund Act 1953, in the First Schedule, in
paragraph 6  - 
(a) delete item (11); and
5 (b) replace item (65) with  - 
"(65) Skills and Workforce Development Agency.".
(4) In the Official Secrets Act 1935, in the Schedule  - 
(a) delete item 7; and
(b) replace item 28 with  - 
10 "28. Skills and Workforce Development Agency".
(5) In the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018, in the
First Schedule, in Part 1  - 
(a) replace item 46 with  - 
. "46. Skills and Workforce
15 Development Agency
Skills and Workforce Development
Agency Act 2026"; and
(b) delete item 49.
(6) In the Statutory Bodies and Government Companies (Protection
of Secrecy) Act 1983, in the Schedule, in Part 1  - 
(a) replace item 31 with  - 
20 . "31. Skills and Workforce
Development Agency
Skills and Workforce Development
Agency Act 2026"; and
(b) delete item 33.
(7) In the Statutory Corporations (Contributions to Consolidated
Fund) Act 1989, in the Schedule  - 
25 (a) replace item 46 with  - 
. "46. Skills and Workforce
Development Agency
Skills and Workforce Development
Agency Act 2026"; and
(b) delete item 49.
72
PART 12
SA VING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
Saving and transitional provisions arising from repeal of
SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016
581. - (1) Any incentive, grant or loan given before the appointed
date by the SSG in the performance or exercise of its functions and
powers under the repealed Act is, as from that date, deemed to be an
incentive, grant or loan given by the Agency under this Act.
(2) Any power  - 
10(a) of an authorised person to verify information under
section 47 may be exercised in respect of any incentive,
grant or loan given before the appointed date under the
repealed Act as if it were an incentive, grant or loan given
under this Act; and
15(b) of an inspector to conduct investigations under section 48
may be exercised in respect of any offence committed or
suspected of having been committed before the appointed
date under the repealed Act.
(3) Despite section 73, section 57D of the repealed Act continues to
20apply on and after the appointed date to  - 
(a) a person who is convicted (whether before, on or after the
appointed date) of an offence under section 57C(1) of the
repealed Act; and
(b) the Agency, which  - 
25(i) may recover any amount due to the SSG under
section 57D(2) of the repealed Act as if it were a
judgment debt due to the Agency; and
(ii) must pay the amount recovered in the manner set out
in section 57D(3) of the repealed Act, as if the
30reference to the funds of the SSG and the general
moneys of the SSG were a reference to the funds of
the Agency and the general moneys of the Agency,
respectively.
73
(4) Where any advertisement is published or caused to be
published, or distributed or caused to be distributed, before the
appointed date, to which section 57F(1) of the repealed Act applies  - 
(a) the Agency may give a direction under section 53(2) in
5 accordance with section 53(3), (4) and (5) to the person
who published or caused to be published, or distributed or
caused to be distributed, that advertisement as if the person
were a defaulting person, and the advertisement were an
advertisement, mentioned in section 53(1);
10 (b) any direction given by the SSG under section 57F(2) of the
repealed Act to a defaulting person under that provision
before the appointed date continues and is deemed to be a
direction made under section 53(2), and the Agency may
take any steps on or after that date in respect of the person
15 who was given the direction, as if that person were a
defaulting person under section 53; and
(c) any notice given by the SSG under section 57F(3) of the
repealed Act to a defaulting person under that provision
before the appointed date continues and is deemed to be a
20 notice given under section 53(3), and the Agency may
decide under section 53(4) to give or not to give (or to
modify) the direction as the Agency considers appropriate.
(5) Where any course or programme fulfils the conditions in
section 57G(1) of the repealed Act before the appointed date  - 
25 (a) the Agency may give a direction under section 54(2) in
accordance with section 54(3), (4) and (5) to the person
who was given an incentive, grant or loan in connection
with the course or programme as if the person were a
funding recipient, and the course or programme were a
30 course or programme, mentioned in section 54(1);
(b) any direction given by the SSG under section 57G(2) of the
repealed Act to a funding recipient under that provision
before the appointed date continues and is deemed to be a
direction made under section 54(2), and the Agency may
35 take any steps on or after that date in respect of the person
74
who was given the direction, as if that person were a
funding recipient under section 54; and
(c) any notice given by the SSG under section 57G(3) of the
repealed Act to a funding recipient under that provision
5before the appointed date continues and is deemed to be a
notice given under section 54(3), and the Agency may
decide under section 54(4) to give or not to give (or to
modify) the direction as the Agency considers appropriate.
(6) An appeal to the Minister against a direction under section 57F
10or 57G of the repealed Act  - 
(a) may be commenced under section 55 if it is made within
the time specified in section 55(2)(b); or
(b) if the appeal was commenced before the appointed date
under section 57H of the repealed Act, may be continued
15under section 55 as if it were commenced under that
section.
(7) Despite section 73, the Chief Executive or an officer of the
Agency authorised in writing by the Agency may compound any
offence under section 60 of the repealed Act which  - 
20(a) is allegedly committed before the appointed date; and
(b) is, immediately before that date, prescribed as a
compoundable offence for the purposes of section 60 of
the repealed Act,
as if section 73 had not been enacted.
25(8) In this section and section 83  - 
"appointed date" means the date of commencement of
section 73;
"repealed Act" means the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency
Act 2016 as in force immediately before the appointed date;
30"SkillsFuture Singapore Agency" or "SSG" means the public
body of that name established by section 3 of the repealed
Act.
75
Saving and transitional provisions arising from repeal of
Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003
82. - (1) Any incentive, grant or loan given before the appointed
date by the WSG in the discharge or exercise of its functions, duties
5 and powers under the repealed Act is, as from that date, deemed to be
an incentive, grant or loan given by the Agency under this Act.
(2) Any power of an authorised person to verify information under
section 47 may be exercised in respect of any incentive, grant or loan
given before the appointed date under the repealed Act as if it were an
10 incentive, grant or loan given under this Act.
(3) In this section  - 
"appointed date" means the date of commencement of
section 74;
"repealed Act" means the Workforce Singapore Agency
15 Act 2003 as in force immediately before the appointed date;
"Workforce Singapore Agency" or "WSG" means the public
body of that name established by section 3 of the repealed
Act.
Other saving and transitional provisions
20 83. - (1) Anything done by the SSG before the appointed date
under  - 
(a) the Private Education Act 2009 as in force immediately
before that date; or
(b) the Skills Development Levy Act 1979 as in force
25 immediately before that date,
continues to be valid as from that date as if it were done by the
Agency under that respective Act.
(2) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe any
30 additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on
the enactment of that provision that the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.
76
EXPLANA TORY STA TEMENT
This Bill seeks to establish the Skills and Workforce Development Agency (the
Agency), to repeal the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency Act 2016 (SSG Act) and
the Workforce Singapore Agency Act 2003 (WSG Act), and to make
consequential and related amendments to certain other Acts.
The Agency is established to replace the SkillsFuture Singapore Agency (SSG)
and the Workforce Singapore Agency (WSG) and to perform an expanded
function in relation to supporting individuals and employers in their career and
workforce needs.
PART 1
PRELIMINARY
Part 1 introduces the terms used in various provisions of the Bill.
Clause 1 relates to the short title and commencement.
Clause 2 is a general interpretation provision. The clause contains definitions
of terms used in the Bill.
PART 2
ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONS AND
POWERS OF AGENCY
Part 2 establishes the Agency and sets out its functions and powers.
Clause 3 establishes the Skills and Workforce Development Agency.
Clause 4 defines the nature and legal capacity of the Agency. The Agency is a
body corporate with perpetual succession, and proceedings may be taken by or
against the Agency in its corporate name. The Agency may also operate under a
trading name approved by the Minister charged with the responsibility for the
Agency.
Clause 5 describes the functions of the Agency. The clause covers the existing
functions of the SSG and the WSG, and reflects the Agency's expanded mandate
with respect to career, employment and training matters (as defined in
clause 2(1)).
Under clause 5(1)(k)(i), the Agency is to perform its function of administering
the Private Education Act 2009 (PEA) in accordance with any directions given by
the relevant Minister charged with the responsibility for the PEA. The delineation
of Ministerial responsibility is set out in the Constitution of the Republic of
Singapore (Ministerial Responsibility) Notification 2025 (G.N. No. S 415/2025)
77
(or any notification subsequently made under Article 30 of the Constitution) read
with the PEA.
Clause 6 provides the Agency with broad powers to do all things necessary or
expedient to perform its functions.
Clause 7 provides the Minister charged with the responsibility for the Agency
with power to give directions to the Agency under section 5 of the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018 (PSGA). The clause also provides for the Minister to have
access to information in the possession of the Agency.
Clause 8 confers on the Agency the exclusive right to the use of one or more
symbols or representations it selects or devises, and to display or exhibit those
symbols or representations in connection with the Agency's activities or affairs.
PART 3
CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AGENCY
Part 3 deals with the constitution and membership of the Agency.
Division 1 of Part 3 (comprising new sections 9 to 17) relates to appointment,
resignation and removal of members of the Agency.
Clause 9 provides for the membership of the Agency. The Agency is to consist
of at least 7 and not more than 15 members. One of those members may be the
Chief Executive.
Clause 10 provides for the appointment of members of the Agency by the
Minister charged with the responsibility for the Agency.
Clause 11 provides that in appointing members of the Agency, the Minister
must have regard to whether the members of the Agency will collectively possess
the appropriate knowledge, skills and experience to assist the Agency to perform
its functions effectively.
Certain individuals described in clause 11(2) are disqualified from being
members of the Agency.
Clause 12 provides for the appointment of the Chairperson and one or more
Deputy Chairpersons from among members appointed, and their tenure.
Clause 13 deals with the situation when a premature vacancy occurs in the
office of any member of the Agency, and empowers the Minister to appoint an
individual to fill the vacancy and hold that office for the remainder of the term for
which the vacating member was appointed.
Clause 14 provides for the appointment of an acting Chairperson and acting
member to act temporarily as the Chairperson or member (as the case may be)
during any period, or during all periods, when the Chairperson or member is
78
absent from duty or Singapore, or is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties
of the office.
Clause 15 empowers the Minister to remove a member of the Agency from
office at any time and without giving any reason.
Clause 16 provides for a member of the Agency to resign from office.
Clause 17 provides that the performance of the functions and exercise of the
powers of the Agency are not affected merely because of (among other reasons)
any vacancy in the membership of the Agency, or of any defect or irregularity
relating to the appointment or continuance in office of a member.
The acts of an individual as a member of the Agency are also not affected
merely because there was some defect or irregularity existing in the appointment
or continuance in office of the individual or (in the case of an individual acting in
the capacity of the Chairperson, a member or the Chief Executive) the occasion for
the individual so acting, or for his or her appointment, had not arisen or had ended.
Division 2 of Part 3 (comprising new sections 18 to 21) relates to the terms and
conditions for members of the Agency.
Clause 18 provides that unless earlier vacated, each member of the Agency
holds office for a period of 3 years or any shorter period specified in the instrument
of appointment.
Clause 19 provides that the members of the Agency may be paid, out of the
funds of the Agency, such salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister
determines.
Clause 20 outlines the circumstances in which the office of a member becomes
vacant.
Clause 21 clarifies that the Minister may specify other terms and conditions of
appointment of a member of the Agency in the instrument of appointment.
PART 4
DECISION-MAKING BY AGENCY
Part 4 provides for decision-making by the Agency.
Division 1 of Part 4 (comprising new sections 22 to 27) relates to meetings of
the Agency.
Clause 22 allows the Agency to regulate its own procedure, subject to the Bill
and the PSGA.
Clause 23 requires notice of meetings of the Agency to be given to each
member.
79
Clause 24 prescribes the quorum for a meeting of the Agency to be one-third of
the number of members or 3 members, whichever is higher.
Clause 25 provides for the person who should preside at meetings.
Clause 26 specifies the process of voting at a meeting of the Agency.
A member present at a meeting of the Agency is presumed to have agreed to, and
to have voted in favour of, a resolution of the Agency unless he or she expressly
dissents from or votes against the resolution at the meeting or is prevented from
voting under section 26 of the PSGA.
Clause 27 provides the process for execution of documents by the Agency.
Division 2 of Part 4 (comprising new sections 28 to 31) relates to committees
and delegation.
Clause 28 empowers the Agency, by resolution, to appoint any number of
committees that it thinks fit for purposes which, in the opinion of the Agency,
would be better regulated and managed by means of those committees. Section 28
of the PSGA would apply to any committee so appointed.
Clause 29 allows a committee of the Agency to regulate its own procedure,
subject to the Bill, the PSGA and any restriction by a resolution under
clause 28(1).
Clause 30 allows the Agency to delegate some of its functions or powers, either
generally or specially, by resolution and written notice, to a member, the
Chief Executive or an officer of the Agency (defined in clause 2(1) to include an
employee and an individual on secondment), any other person performing duties
in the Agency (including a person performing duties in the Agency under a
contract, or under an arrangement making available temporarily to the Agency the
services of public officers), a committee that includes at least one member of the
Agency, a wholly-owned subsidiary company of the Agency or a contractor of the
Agency. The delegation may authorise subdelegation to appropriately qualified
persons described in sub-clause (2).
Clause 31 provides for the validity of acts of delegates and subdelegates.
The clause also provides that a delegate or subdelegate must produce evidence of
the delegation or subdelegation if reasonably requested to do so, and that a
subdelegate is not authorised to further subdelegate a delegated function or power.
PART 5
PERSONNEL MA TTERS
Part 5 deals with personnel matters.
Clause 32 relates to the appointment of the Chief Executive of the Agency,
which is also governed by Division 1 of Part 3 of the PSGA. The Agency must
80
appoint the Chief Executive with the prior approval of the Minister charged with
the responsibility for the Agency and the prior concurrence of the Public Service
Commission.
Clause 33 provides for the Agency to appoint and employ officers, consultants
and agents.
Clause 34 provides that all delegates and subdelegates of the Agency are
deemed to be public servants for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.
Delegates and subdelegates of the Agency who are involved in the
administration, assessment, collection or enforcement of payment of financial
penalties imposed or composition sums collected under the Bill, the PEA or the
Skills Development Levy Act 1979 (SDL Act) are also deemed to be public
officers for the purposes of the Financial Procedure Act 1966 (FPA). These are
public moneys that must be accounted for in the Consolidated Fund. Section 20 of
the FPA (disciplinary punishment for loss of public moneys, etc.) applies to these
delegates and subdelegates even though they are not or were not in the
employment of the Government.
Clause 35 imposes on the members, committee members, Chief Executive,
officers, consultants, agents, delegates and subdelegates of the Agency, as well as
authorised persons and inspectors, the duty to preserve secrecy in relation to
information obtained in their respective capacities.
Clause 36 protects the members, committee members, Chief Executive,
officers, delegates and subdelegates of the Agency, as well as authorised persons,
inspectors and other persons acting under the direction of the Agency, from
personal liability for anything done in good faith and with reasonable care in the
performance of the functions or exercise of the powers under the Bill or any other
Act (including the PEA and the SDL Act).
PART 6
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
Part 6 sets out the financial provisions of the Agency.
Clause 37 sets out the financial year of the Agency.
Clause 38 sets out the revenue and property of the Agency, among which is the
Skills Development Fund (SDF), which the Agency must manage and administer
in accordance with the SDL Act and separately from all its other funds and
property.
Clause 39 requires the Agency to open and maintain one or more bank
accounts. The bank accounts may only be operated by persons duly authorised by
the Agency.
81
Clause 40 confers on the Agency the standard investment power of statutory
bodies as defined in section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965, except with regard
to the SDF. The investment of moneys in the SDF is governed by the SDL Act.
Clause 41 requires the Agency to issue shares to the Minister charged with the
responsibility for finance where required, as a consequence of the vesting of any
property, rights or liabilities in the Agency under the Bill or any capital injection or
other investment by the Government in the Agency.
Clause 42 sets out the borrowing powers of the Agency.
Clause 43 provides that the Agency must prepare annual estimates of income
and expenditure for the SDF for each financial year, and may also prepare
supplementary estimates for the SDF wherever necessary. This is in addition to
sections 34 and 35 of the PSGA, under which the Agency must prepare annual
estimates of its revenue and expenditure for each financial year, and may also
prepare supplementary estimates of its revenue and expenditure during a
financial year.
Clause 44 requires the SDF to be audited separately according to the SDL Act.
PART 7
ADMINISTRA TION AND ENFORCEMENT
Part 7 provides for enforcement powers necessary for the administration of the
Bill, which are currently found in Part 7 of the SSG Act.
Division 1 of Part 7 (comprising new sections 45 to 48) relates to preliminary
matters, appointments and powers.
Clause 45 defines an incentive, a grant or a loan for the purposes of Part 7.
An incentive, a grant or a loan from the Agency can be given out of moneys in the
SDF (SDF moneys), out of moneys not in the SDF (non-SDF moneys) or out of a
combination of SDF moneys and non-SDF moneys. Any combination of SDF
moneys and non-SDF moneys is subject to clause 38(2), which requires the SDF
to be managed and administered by the Agency separately from the other funds
and property of the Agency.
Clause 46 provides for the appointment of authorised persons and inspectors,
and related matters. Both authorised persons and inspectors are individuals, but
the difference in their respective appointments is that an officer or agent of the
Agency, a public officer or an officer of another public body or any other suitably
qualified individual (who may be a private individual) can be appointed as an
authorised person, whereas only an officer of the Agency can be appointed as an
inspector.
Clause 47 sets out the powers of authorised persons appointed under
clause 46(1). The powers are for the purpose of inquiries or ascertainment of
82
matters described in clause 47(1)(a) or (b) relating to an incentive, a grant or a loan
from the Agency.
Clause 48 sets out the powers of inspectors appointed under clause 46(2),
which are more intrusive than the powers of authorised persons. The powers of
inspectors are for the purpose of investigating an offence under the Bill, which
extends to investigating any offence prescribed in subsidiary legislation made
under the Bill, by virtue of section 26A of the Interpretation Act 1965.
Division 2 of Part 7 (comprising new sections 49 to 59) relates to offences and
related provisions.
Clause 49 provides for the meanings of "funding arrangement" and "abusive
funding arrangement" in clauses 49, 50 and 51. The clause also provides for how
the amount of wrongly obtained funding is to be determined for the purposes of
clauses 50 and 51.
Clause 50 sets out the offence of entering into or facilitating an abusive funding
arrangement. The offence may be committed by one or more persons (whether an
individual, an entity or otherwise) who may, alone or with other persons, engage in
one transaction or multiple transactions aimed at wrongfully obtaining an
incentive, a grant or a loan from the Agency. In addition to the punishment of a
fine or imprisonment or both, a person convicted of the offence also has to pay a
penalty based on the amount of wrongly obtained funding described in
clause 50(2)(a) and (3). What it means to facilitate a funding arrangement is
described in clause 50(5), with exceptions set out in clause 50(6) in recognition
that there may be persons (for example, Internet Service Providers or mobile
network operators) that merely provide facilities for transmission of data, etc.,
with no other involvement in the abusive funding arrangement. A rebuttable
presumption as to a person's intention is set out in clause 50(7).
Clause 51 provides for a court to order a person convicted of an offence under
clause 50(1) to repay to the Agency the amount of wrongly obtained funding that
the convicted person obtained from the Agency (whether for the benefit of the
convicted person, or any other person or persons), as a result of the abusive
funding arrangement entered into or facilitated by the convicted person.
Clause 52 sets out the offence of publishing or distributing an advertisement
that is false or misleading in a material particular (as defined in sub-clause (4)).
The offence is targeted mainly at the publication or distribution of advertisements
which may mislead one or more persons as to the courses or programmes funded
or eligible for funding by the Agency (for example, courses for which SkillsFuture
credits may be used), or accredited by the Agency or by other persons whose
accreditation the Agency has facilitated. A person who does not publish or
distribute such an advertisement, but causes the publication or distribution of the
advertisement, may still be liable for the offence. An advertisement for the
83
purposes of the offence could be a printed advertisement, an online advertisement
or an advertisement accessible in any other medium as described in sub-clause (3).
Clause 53 empowers the Agency to give directions on remedial measures to be
taken by a person in relation to false or misleading advertisements. The Agency
must allow a person to make representations before giving the direction, unless the
Agency considers it not practicable or desirable to do so. A person who, without
reasonable excuse, fails to comply with the direction shall be guilty of an offence.
Clause 54 empowers the Agency to give directions to a person who receives an
incentive, a grant or a loan from the Agency (the funding recipient) in connection
with a course or programme, to make refunds to trainees or other persons, or the
Agency, if the course or programme is cancelled or not completed. The Agency
must allow the funding recipient to make representations before giving the
direction, unless the Agency considers it not practicable or desirable to do so. A
funding recipient who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with the
direction shall be guilty of an offence.
Clauses 55, 56 and 57 provide for appeals to the Minister against the Agency's
directions under clause 53(2) or 54(2). The Minister may designate another
office-holder to hear and determine an appeal in his or her place.
Clause 58 sets out the offence of making (or authorising the making of) a
statement in relation to the person's application, or in support of another person's
application, for any incentive, grant or loan from the Agency, knowing that the
statement is false or misleading in any material particular. The clause also
provides for a court to order a person convicted of the offence to repay to the
Agency the amount of the incentive, grant or loan that the Agency gave to the
convicted person as a result of the statement, but excluding any amount that the
Agency would have given to the convicted person without that statement.
It is also an offence to provide documents or information required under
clause 47 or 48, or to provide documents or information to the Agency in
connection with any of its functions or powers under the Bill, knowing that the
documents or information are false or misleading in any material particular.
Further, it is an offence to intentionally alter, suppress or destroy documents or
information required to be provided under clause 47 or 48.
Clause 59 sets out the offence of obstructing or hindering a member, officer,
agent, delegate or subdelegate of the Agency, or an authorised person or inspector,
who is performing or exercising any function or power under the Bill. It is also an
offence to neglect or refuse to attend before an inspector as required under
clause 48, or otherwise fail to comply with a lawful demand of an inspector under
clause 48.
84
PART 8
GENERAL
Part 8 contains general provisions.
Clause 60 provides the power to compound offences that are prescribed as
compoundable offences.
Clauses 61 and 62 are standard provisions regarding the liability of officers of
corporations, unincorporated associations and partnerships which have committed
an offence under the Bill.
Clause 63 confers on a District Court and a Magistrate's Court jurisdiction to
try any offence under the Bill and to punish accordingly despite any limits set
under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.
Clause 64 deals with the service of documents permitted or required to be
served by or under the Bill.
Clause 65 empowers the Agency, with the Minister's approval, to make
regulations prescribing matters that are required or permitted by the Bill or are
necessary or convenient to be made for carrying out or giving effect to the Bill.
Clause 66 empowers the Agency to issue one or more codes of practice or
guidelines applicable to service providers (defined in clause 2(1)) generally or
particular types of service providers. The clause also empowers the Agency to
approve as a code of practice or guidelines any document prepared by a person
other than the Agency if the Agency considers the document as suitable for this
purpose.
PART 9
TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS AND PERSONNEL TO AGENCY
Part 9 contains provisions that transfer undertakings and employees from the
SSG and the WSG to the Agency.
Clause 67 contains definitions used for the purposes of Part 9.
Clause 68 provides for the transfer, on the transfer date (which is the date of
commencement of Part 9), to the Agency of all assets and liabilities (as defined in
clause 67) of the SSG and the WSG.
Clause 68 also contains provisions, the general purpose of which are to put the
Agency in the same legal position as the SSG and the WSG, from which assets or
liabilities are transferred.
Clause 68 further declares that the transfer does not constitute a breach of or
default under any Act or other law, any contract or other instrument, or any duty of
confidence, and does not constitute a civil or criminal wrong, terminate an
85
agreement or obligation, fulfil any condition that allows a person to terminate an
agreement or obligation, give rise to any other right or remedy, or release a surety
or other obligor or obligee wholly or in part from an obligation.
Clause 69 provides for the transfer of employees of the SSG and the WSG to
the employment of the Agency on the transfer date on terms no less favourable.
The clause declares that the transfer does not interrupt continuity of service or
constitute a retrenchment or redundancy and does not entitle any employee so
transferred to any payment or other benefit. The clause also provides for public
officers and public body employees who are seconded to the SSG or the WSG to
continue on secondment to the Agency.
Clause 70 declares that, in the transfer of employees, the employees' terms of
employment are preserved, in particular, terms relating to remuneration, leave
rights or continuity of service.
Clause 71 provides for the transfer of records from the SSG and the WSG to the
Agency.
Clause 72 provides for disputes relating to transfers of assets, liabilities or
records to be determined by the Minister charged with the responsibility for
finance.
PART 10
REPEAL
Clause 73 repeals the SSG Act.
Clause 74 repeals the WSG Act.
PART 11
CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELA TED AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
Part 11 makes consequential and related amendments to other Acts.
Clauses 75, 76 and 77 amend the Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018, the
Income Tax Act 1947 and the Institute of Technical Education Act 1992,
respectively, to replace each reference in those Acts to the SSG or the WSG with a
reference to the Agency.
Clause 78 amends the PEA to define a category of private education
institutions for which a different Minister may be assigned responsibility.
A "private education institution for adult learners" will be defined in section 2
of the PEA as a private education institution in which the majority (i.e., more than
half) of the enrolled students are 25 years of age or older, and that does not offer or
provide any general education (i.e., education normally for a person who is below
16 years of age).
86
Section 4(2) of the PEA is amended to provide that the Agency must have
regard to any direction given by the Minister (referring to the Minister charged
with the responsibility for the PEA) in the performance of its functions and, in
matters relating to private education institutions for adult learners, also have
regard to any direction given by the Minister charged with the responsibility for
that matter.
Clause 78 also replaces each reference in the PEA to the SSG, the
Chief Executive of the SSG or the SSG Act with a reference to the Agency, the
Chief Executive of the Agency or the Bill, as the case may be.
Clause 79 amends the SDL Act to replace each reference in the SDL Act to the
SSG or the SSG Act with a reference to the Agency or the Bill, as the case may be.
Clause 80 amends various other Acts to replace each reference in those Acts to
the SSG or the WSG with a reference to the Agency.
PART 12
SA VING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
Clause 81 provides for saving and transitional arrangements arising from the
repeal of the SSG Act, to ensure continuity of matters despite the repeal of the
SSG Act.
Clause 82 provides for saving and transitional arrangements arising from the
repeal of the WSG Act, to ensure continuity of matters despite the repeal of the
WSG Act.
Clause 83 provides for saving and transitional arrangements to ensure
continuity of matters under the PEA and the SDL Act despite the repeal of the
SSG Act. The clause also empowers the Minister to make regulations prescribing
any additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of any provision of the Bill, that the Minister may consider necessary or
expedient. The Minister has power to make such regulations only within 2 years
after the date of commencement of the provision.
EXPENDITURE OF PUBLIC MONEY
This Bill will not involve the Government in any extra financial expenditure.
87