Road Traffic
(Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill
Bill No. 14/2026.
Read the first time on 7 July 2026.
A BILL
intituled
An Act to amend the Road Traffic Act 1961 and the Motor V ehicles
(Third-Party Risks and Compensation) Act 1960.
Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the
Parliament of Singapore, as follows:
Short title and commencement
1. This Act is the Road Traffic (Miscellaneous Amendments)
Act 2026 and comes into operation on a date that the Minister
appoints by notification in the Gazette.
5 PART 1
AMENDMENT OF ROAD TRAFFIC ACT 1961
Amendment of section 36
2. In the Road Traffic Act 1961 (called in this Act the RT Act), in
section 36(7), replace "section 64" with "section 63A, 64".
10 Amendment of section 42
3. In the RT Act, in section 42  - 
(a) in subsection (1), replace "any period" with
"any disqualification period"; and
(b) after subsection (4), insert  - 
15 "(5) In this section, "disqualification period", for an
offender against whom an order is made under
subsection (1) in addition to the punishment
imposed for an offence (called in this subsection the
relevant offence), means the period for which the
20 offender is disqualified from holding or obtaining a
driving licence by that order, starting on the later of
the following dates:
(a) the date of the offender's conviction for the
relevant offence;
25 (b) the date the offender is released from
prison and is no longer serving any
sentence of imprisonment, if the offender
is or was sentenced to imprisonment
(whether for the relevant offence or any
30 other offence) before or at the same hearing
where the offender is sentenced for the
relevant offence.".
2
Amendment of section 42B
4. In the RT Act, in section 42B  - 
(a) in subsection (1), replace "or an order of a court" with
"(called in this section the relevant conviction) or an order
5of a court (called in this section the relevant order)";
(b) in subsection (1), replace "the date of commencement of
section 3 of the Road Traffic (Miscellaneous
Amendments) Act 2025" with "1 January 2026";
(c) in subsection (2), replace the definition of "disqualification
10period" with  - 
" "disqualification period" means the period for
which a person is disqualified from holding or
obtaining a driving licence because of the
relevant conviction or the relevant order,
15starting on the later of the following dates:
(a) the date of the relevant conviction or
the relevant order;
(b) the date the person is released from
prison and is no longer serving any
20sentence of imprisonment, if the
person was sentenced to
imprisonment (whether in relation to
the relevant conviction or any other
conviction) before or at the same
25hearing where the person was
sentenced for the relevant conviction
or at which the relevant order was
made;"; and
(d) in subsection (2), in the definition of "period of
30imprisonment", replace "of the person's release from
prison" with "the person is released from prison and is
no longer serving any sentence of imprisonment".
3
Amendment of section 47C
5. In the RT Act, in section 47C(1A), replace "section 64" with
"section 63A, 64".
New section 63A
5 6. In the RT Act, after section 63, insert  - 
"Purposeful endangerment using motor vehicle
63A. - (1) A person (X) commits an offence if  - 
(a) X drives a motor vehicle on a road in such a manner
which endangers the life or safety of any person
10 (whether or not the person is in a vehicle);
(b) X drives in that manner for the purpose of
endangering the life or safety of a particular
person (Y) (whether or not Y is in a vehicle); and
(c) death or grievous hurt is caused to any person
15 (whether or not the person is Y and whether or not
the person is in a vehicle) by the driving of the motor
vehicle by X.
Illustrations
(a) A is driving a motor car on a road. B is driving another motor car in
20 front of A. A manoeuvres A's car in front of B's car and brakes suddenly. This
endangers B's personal safety. A does so for the purpose of endangering B's
personal safety. B loses control of B's car and crashes into C who is riding a
motor cycle. C dies as a result. A is guilty of an offence under subsection (1).
(b) A is driving a motor car on a road. B is riding a motor cycle in front
25 of A. A drives closely behind B and presses A's car horn several times. This
endangers B's personal safety. A does so for the purpose of endangering B's
personal safety. A loses control of A's car and collides with the back of B's
motor cycle. B crashes and dies as a result. A is guilty of an offence under
subsection (1).
30 (c) A is driving a motor car on a road. B is riding a motor cycle on the
same road. Both parties start racing with one another. A swerves into B's lane
for the purpose of endangering B's personal safety. This endangers B's
personal safety. B fails to take evasive action and collides into A's car. B is
thrown off B's motor cycle and dies as a result. A is guilty of an offence under
35 subsection (1).
4
(2) A person who is guilty of an offence under
subsection (1)  - 
(a) shall on conviction be punished with imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 15 years; and
5(b) in addition, shall be liable on conviction to a fine or to
caning, or to both.
(3) A court convicting a person of an offence under
subsection (1) is to order that the person be disqualified from
holding or obtaining a driving licence for life, starting on the
10date of the person's conviction, unless the court for special
reasons thinks fit to order a shorter disqualification period that is
equal to or longer than 10 years.
(4) Where a person is convicted of abetting the commission of
an offence under subsection (1) and it is proved that the person
15was present in the motor vehicle used in the commission of the
offence at the time of the commission of the offence, the person
is, for the purposes of sections 42(1)(a) and 44(1), deemed to be
a person convicted of an offence in connection with the driving
of a motor vehicle.
20(5) Any police officer may arrest without warrant any person
who has committed or is committing an offence under
subsection (1).
(6) Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District
Court or a Magistrate's Court has jurisdiction to try an offence
25under subsection (1) and has power to impose the full
punishment specified in this section.
(7) In this section  - 
"disqualification period", for an offender convicted of an
offence (called in this subsection the relevant offence)
30under subsection (1), means the period for which the
offender is disqualified from holding or obtaining a
driving licence because of that conviction for the
relevant offence, starting on the later of the following
dates:
5
(a) the date of the offender's conviction for the
relevant offence;
(b) the date the offender is released from prison and
is no longer serving any sentence of
5 imprisonment, if the offender is or was
sentenced to imprisonment (whether for the
relevant offence or any other offence) before or
at the same hearing where the offender is
sentenced for the relevant offence;
10 "grievous", in relation to hurt, has the meaning given by
section 320 (except paragraph (aa)) of the Penal
Code 1871;
"hurt" has the meaning given by section 319 of the Penal
Code 1871.".
15 Amendment of section 64
7. In the RT Act, in section 64  - 
(a) in subsection (7)(a), replace "5 years" with "7 years";
(b) in subsection (7)(b), replace "10 years" with "13 years";
(c) in subsection (7)(c), replace "one year" with "18 months";
20 (d) in subsection (7)(d), replace "2 years" with "3 years
and 6 months";
(e) in subsection (9), replace "shorter period of
disqualification" with "shorter disqualification period";
(f) in the following provisions, replace "the date of
25 commencement of section 5 of the Road Traffic
(Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025" wherever it
appears with "12 June 2025":
(f) Subsection (9)(b), (e), (h) and (j)
(f) Subsection (10)(a), (b), (c) and (d)
30 (f) Subsection (11)(a) and (b)(i);
(g) in subsection (10), replace "shorter period" with "shorter
disqualification period";
6
(h) in subsection (11)(a)(ii), after "section", insert "63A,";
(i) replace subsection (12) with  - 
"(12) Where a person is convicted of abetting the
commission of an offence under this section and it is
5proved that the person was present in the motor
vehicle used in the commission of the offence at the
time of the commission of the offence, the person is,
for the purposes of sections 42(1)(a) and 44(1),
deemed to be a person convicted of an offence in
10connection with the driving of a motor vehicle."; and
(j) in subsection (16), replace the definition of
"disqualification period" with  - 
" "disqualification period", for an offender convicted
of an offence (called in this subsection the
15relevant offence) under this section or
section 65 (as the case may be), means the
period for which the offender is disqualified
from holding or obtaining a driving licence
because of that conviction for the relevant
20offence, starting on the later of the following
dates:
(a) the date of the offender's conviction
for the relevant offence;
(b) the date the offender is released from
25prison and is no longer serving any
sentence of imprisonment, if the
offender is or was sentenced to
imprisonment (whether for the
relevant offence or any other
30offence) before or at the same
hearing where the offender is
sentenced for the relevant offence;".
7
Amendment of section 65
8. In the RT Act, in section 65  - 
(a) in subsection (7)(c), replace "12 months" with
"18 months";
5 (b) in subsection (7)(d), replace "2 years" with "3 years and
6 months";
(c) in subsection (9), replace "shorter period of
disqualification" with "shorter disqualification period";
(d) in the following provisions, replace "the date of
10 commencement of section 5 of the Road Traffic
(Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025" wherever it
appears with "12 June 2025":
(d) Subsection (9)(b), (e), (h) and (j)
(d) Subsection (10)(a), (b), (c) and (d)
15 (d) Subsection (11)(a) and (b)(i);
(e) in subsection (10), replace "shorter period" with "shorter
disqualification period"; and
(f) in subsection (11)(a)(ii), after "section", insert "63A,".
Amendment of section 65AA
20 9. In the RT Act, in section 65AA(1), after paragraph (aa), insert  - 
"(ab) section 63A;".
Amendment of section 65B
10. In the RT Act, in section 65B  - 
(a) in the section heading, replace "Use of" with "Holding";
25 (b) in subsection (1), delete "and operates any of its
communicative or other functions,";
(c) after subsection (1A), insert  - 
"(1B) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of
subsection (1), a driver who touches with his or her
30 hand a mobile communication device which is
8
secured in a mounting affixed to the vehicle, in the
manner intended by the manufacturer of the
mounting, does not hold the device."; and
(d) in subsection (3), in the definition of "repeat offender",
5replace paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) with  - 
"(a) an offence under subsection (1); or
(b) an offence under section 65B as in force
immediately before 1 February 2015,".
Amendment of section 67
1011. In the RT Act, in section 67  - 
(a) in subsection (1)(a), delete "or" at the end;
(b) in subsection (1)(b), after "blood", insert "is equal to or";
(c) in subsection (1)(b), replace the comma at the end with
"; or";
15(d) in subsection (1), after paragraph (b), insert  - 
"(c) has a specified substance present in his or
her blood,";
(e) after subsection (1), insert  - 
"(1A) In any proceedings for an offence under
20subsection (1)(c), it is a defence for the defendant to
prove, on a balance of probabilities, that  - 
(a) the specified substance was present in the
defendant's blood at the time of the alleged
offence because the specified substance
25was lawfully smoked, inhaled, used or
consumed by, or lawfully administered to
or by, the defendant as authorised or
exempted under  - 
(i) the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973;
30(ii) the Tobacco and V aporisers Control
Act 1993; or
9
(iii) the Intoxicating Substances
Act 1987; and
(b) the defendant did not know or have reason
to believe that the smoking, inhalation, use
5 or consumption by, or the administration to
or by, the defendant, of the specified
substance would affect his or her
capacity, at the time of the alleged
offence, to have proper control of a motor
10 vehicle.";
(f) in subsection (2), replace "period of disqualification, order
that the person be disqualified from holding or obtaining a
driving licence for a period that is equal to or longer than
the specified period corresponding to that case, starting on
15 the date of the person's conviction or, where the person is
sentenced to imprisonment, on the date of the person's
release from prison" with "disqualification period, order
that the person be disqualified from holding or obtaining a
driving licence for a disqualification period that is equal to
20 or longer than the specified period corresponding to that
case";
(g) in subsection (2A), replace "shorter period of
disqualification" with "shorter disqualification period";
and
25 (h) replace subsection (4) with  - 
"(4) In this section  - 
"disqualification period", for an offender
convicted of an offence (called in this
subsection the relevant offence) under this
30 section, means the period for which the
offender is disqualified from holding or
obtaining a driving licence because of that
conviction for the relevant offence, starting
on the later of the following dates:
10
(a) the date of the offender's conviction
for the relevant offence;
(b) the date the offender is released from
prison and is no longer serving any
5sentence of imprisonment, if the
offender is or was sentenced to
imprisonment (whether for the
relevant offence or any other
offence) before or at the same
10hearing where the offender is
sentenced for the relevant offence;
"repeat offender" means a person who is
convicted of an offence under this section
and who has been convicted (whether before,
15on or after 1 November 2019) on one other
earlier occasion of  - 
(a) an offence under subsection (1) or
section 68; or
(b) an offence under subsection (1) as in
20force immediately before
1 November 2019.".
Amendment of section 67A
12. In the RT Act, in section 67A(3), in the definition of "specified
offence"  - 
25(a) in paragraph (a), delete "64(1) (as in force immediately
before the date of commencement of section 5 of the Road
Traffic (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025),";
(b) after paragraph (a), insert  - 
"(aa) section 64(1) that is committed before
3012 June 2025;";
(c) in paragraphs (b) and (ba), replace "the date of
commencement of section 5 of the Road Traffic
(Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025" with "12 June
2025";
11
(d) in paragraph (ba), delete "or" at the end; and
(e) after paragraph (ba), insert  - 
"(bb) section 63A(1) that is committed on or after
the date of commencement of section 6 of
5 the Road Traffic (Miscellaneous
Amendments) Act 2026; or".
Amendment of section 68
13. In the RT Act, in section 68  - 
(a) in subsection (1)(a), delete "or" at the end;
10 (b) in subsection (1)(b), after "blood", insert "is equal to or";
(c) in subsection (1)(b), replace the comma at the end with
"; or";
(d) in subsection (1), after paragraph (b), insert  - 
"(c) has a specified substance present in his or
15 her blood,";
(e) after subsection (1), insert  - 
"(1A) In any proceedings for an offence under
subsection (1)(c), it is a defence for the defendant to
prove, on a balance of probabilities, that  - 
20 (a) the specified substance was present in the
defendant's blood at the time of the alleged
offence because the specified substance
was lawfully smoked, inhaled, used or
consumed by, or lawfully administered to
25 or by, the defendant as authorised or
exempted under  - 
(i) the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973;
(ii) the Tobacco and V aporisers Control
Act 1993; or
30 (iii) the Intoxicating Substances
Act 1987; and
12
(b) the defendant did not know or have reason
to believe that the smoking, inhalation, use
or consumption by, or the administration to
or by, the defendant, of the specified
5substance would affect his or her
capacity, at the time of the alleged
offence, to have proper control of a motor
vehicle.";
(f) replace subsection (2) with  - 
10"(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), a person is
deemed not to have been in charge of a motor vehicle
if the person proves, on a balance of probabilities  - 
(a) that at the material time the circumstances
were such that there was no likelihood of
15the person's driving the vehicle so long
as  - 
(i) he or she remained so unfit to drive;
(ii) the proportion of alcohol in his or her
breath or blood remained equal to or
20in excess of the prescribed limit; or
(iii) the specified substance was present
in his or her blood; and
(b) that the person had not driven the vehicle
on a road or other public place between  - 
25(i) the time he or she became so unfit to
drive and the material time;
(ii) the time when the proportion of
alcohol in his or her breath or blood
first became equal to, or first
30exceeded, the prescribed limit and
the material time; or
(iii) the time when the specified
substance became present in his or
13
her blood and the material time.";
and
(g) in subsection (3), replace "of the offender's release from
prison" with "the offender is released from prison and is no
5 longer serving any sentence of imprisonment".
Amendment of section 69
14. In the RT Act, in section 69  - 
(a) replace the section heading with "Breath tests, etc.";
(b) in subsections (1), (3A) and (5)(a) and (b), replace
10 "preliminary breath test" with "breath test";
(c) after subsection (1), insert  - 
"(1A) A police officer may, for the prevention or
detection of an offence under section 67 or 68 and
before requiring the person to provide a specimen of
15 his or her breath for a breath test under subsection (1),
subject the person to a passive breath test.";
(d) replace subsection (2) with  - 
"(2) A person may be required under subsection (1)
to provide a specimen of his or her breath  - 
20 (a) at or near the place where the requirement
is made; or
(b) if the police officer making the requirement
thinks fit, at a police station specified by
the police officer.";
25 (e) in subsection (3), replace "A preliminary breath test
required under subsection (1)" with "A breath test
required under subsection (1), and a passive breath test
mentioned in subsection (1A),";
(f) in subsection (4), replace "pursuant to this section" with
30 "under subsection (1) or (3A)";
(g) after subsection (4), insert  - 
14
"(4A) If a person (X) is convicted of an offence
under subsection (4) and it is shown that at the time of
X's involvement in an accident mentioned in
subsection (1)(d) (if any) or of X's arrest under
5subsection (5)(b) or (c), as the case may be  - 
(a) X was driving or attempting to drive a
motor vehicle on a road or any other public
place  -  X shall, in lieu of the punishment
prescribed under subsection (4), be liable to
10be punished as if the offence which X is
convicted of were an offence under
section 67; or
(b) X was in charge of a motor vehicle on a
road or any other public place  -  X shall, in
15lieu of the punishment prescribed under
subsection (4), be liable to be punished as if
the offence which X is convicted of were an
offence under section 68."; and
(h) in subsection (5)(a), after "blood", insert "is equal to or".
20Amendment of section 70
15. In the RT Act, in section 70  - 
(a) in the section heading, after "Provision of", insert
"blood";
(b) replace subsections (1), (2) and (3) with  - 
25"(1) A police officer may, subject to the provisions
of this section, require a person (X) to provide to a
registered medical practitioner or nurse, at any place
that may be determined by the police officer, a
specimen of blood for a laboratory test for the purpose
30of investigating whether X has committed an offence
under section 67 or 68 if  - 
(a) X is arrested under section 69(5); or
15
(b) X is at a hospital as a patient and the police
officer making the requirement has
reasonable cause to suspect that  - 
(i) X has alcohol in X's body; or
5 (ii) X is under the influence of a drug, a
psychoactive substance or an
intoxicating substance.
(2) A requirement under subsection (1)(a) to
provide a specimen of blood must not be made
10 unless  - 
(a) the police officer making the requirement
has reasonable cause to believe that for
medical reasons a specimen of breath for a
breath test under section 69(1) or (3A)
15 cannot be provided or should not be
required;
(b) when the requirement is made, there is no
breath analysing device of a type approved
for a breath test under section 69(1) or (3A)
20 at the hospital, or at the police station or at
or near the place where the arrest was
made, or it is for any other reason not
practicable to conduct a breath test under
that section; or
25 (c) the police officer making the requirement
has reasonable cause to suspect that the
person required to provide the specimen is
under the influence of a drug, a
psychoactive substance or an intoxicating
30 substance.
(3) A requirement under this section to provide a
specimen of blood may be made even though the
person required to provide the specimen has already
provided or been required to provide a specimen of
16
his or her breath for a breath test under section 69(1)
or (3A).";
(c) in subsection (4), after "specimen", insert "of blood for a
laboratory test"; and
5(d) in subsection (5), after "under this section to provide a
specimen", insert "of blood".
Replacement of section 71
16. In the RT Act, replace section 71 with  - 
"How breath test or blood test is to be carried out
1071. - (1) Before taking a specimen of breath for a breath test
from a person (X) who is at a hospital as a patient, the police
officer taking the specimen, the registered medical practitioner
or nurse in immediate charge of X's case, and any other person
who is giving instruction in relation to or overseeing the taking
15of the specimen, must each satisfy himself or herself that it does
not endanger X.
(2) Before taking a specimen of blood for a laboratory test
from a person (Y) mentioned in section 70(1), the registered
medical practitioner or nurse taking the specimen, and any other
20person who is giving instruction in relation to or overseeing the
taking of the specimen, must each satisfy himself or herself that
it does not endanger Y.".
Amendment of section 71A
17. In the RT Act, in section 71A  - 
25(a) replace subsection (1) with  - 
"(1) In proceedings for an offence under section 67
or 68, evidence of the proportion of alcohol or of any
drug, psychoactive substance or intoxicating
substance in a specimen of breath or blood provided
30by the accused under section 69 or 70 (as the case may
be) is to be taken into account.
17
(1A) Where the proceedings are for an offence
under  - 
(a) section 67(1)(a) or 68(1)(a) and it is
alleged that, at the time of the offence,
5 the accused was unfit to drive in that he or
she was under the influence of drink; or
(b) section 67(1)(b) or 68(1)(b),
subject to subsection (2), it is to be assumed that the
proportion of alcohol in the accused's breath or blood
10 at the time of the alleged offence was not less than that
in the accused's specimen of breath or blood provided
under section 69 or 70, as the case may be.
(1B) Where the proceedings are for an offence
under section 67(1)(c) or 68(1)(c), subject to
15 subsection (2A), it is to be assumed that the
specified substance was present in the accused's
blood at the time of the alleged offence if it is present
in the accused's specimen of blood provided under
section 70.";
20 (b) in subsection (2), replace "subsection (1) must not be made
if the accused proves" with "subsection (1A) must not be
made if the accused proves, on a balance of probabilities";
(c) after subsection (2), insert  - 
"(2A) Where the proceedings are for an offence
25 under section 67(1)(c) or 68(1)(c), the assumption
mentioned in subsection (1B) must not be made if the
accused proves, on a balance of probabilities  - 
(a) that he or she smoked, inhaled, used,
consumed, administered, or was
30 administered, the specified substance after
he or she had ceased to drive, attempt to
drive or be in charge of a motor vehicle on a
road or any other public place and before
he or she provided the specimen of blood;
35 and
18
(b) that had he or she not done so (or been so
administered) the specified substance
would not have been present in his or her
blood."; and
5(d) in subsection (4), after "registered medical practitioner"
wherever it appears, insert "or nurse".
Amendment of section 71B
18. In the RT Act, in section 71B  - 
(a) in the section heading, after "registered medical
10practitioner", insert "or nurse"; and
(b) in subsection (1), after "registered medical practitioner"
wherever it appears, insert "or nurse".
Amendment of section 72
19. In the RT Act, in section 72  - 
15(a) in subsection (1), in the definition of "authorised analyst",
after "registered medical practitioner", insert ", nurse";
(b) in subsection (1), after the definition of "intoxicating
substance", insert  - 
" "nurse" means a registered nurse or enrolled nurse
20within the meaning given by section 2 of the
Nurses and Midwives Act 1999;
"passive breath test" means a contactless test using
ambient air samples to assess whether there is
alcohol present in a person's breath, by means of
25a breath analysing device of a type approved by
the Deputy Commissioner of Police;";
(c) in subsection (1), delete the definition of "preliminary
breath test";
(d) in subsection (1), in the definition of "prescribed limit", in
30paragraph (a), replace "35 microgrammes" with
"15 microgrammes";
19
(e) in subsection (1), in the definition of "prescribed limit", in
paragraph (b), replace "80 milligrammes" with
"30 milligrammes";
(f) in subsection (1), in the definition of "psychoactive
5 substance", in paragraph (b), replace the full-stop at the
end with a semi-colon;
(g) in subsection (1), after the definition of "psychoactive
substance", insert  - 
" "specified substance" means any substance which
10 is  - 
(a) a controlled drug within the meaning
given by section 2 of the Misuse of
Drugs Act 1973;
(b) a psychoactive substance; or
15 (c) an intoxicating substance.";
(h) in subsection (1A), replace "definition of "breath test""
with "definition of "breath test" or "passive breath test" (as
the case may be)"; and
(i) in subsection (3), after "registered medical practitioner",
20 insert "or nurse".
Amendment of section 79
20. In the RT Act, in section 79(5), after "released from prison",
insert "and is no longer serving any sentence of imprisonment".
Replacement of section 81 and new sections 81A, 81B and 81C
25 21. In the RT Act, replace section 81 with  - 
"Duty to give information
81. - (1) Where the driver of a motor vehicle is alleged or is
suspected to be guilty of an offence under this Act or the rules,
the owner of the motor vehicle (called in this section the affected
30 owner), when required under a notice issued by a relevant
enforcement officer to do so, must give to the relevant
20
enforcement officer, within 14 days after being served with the
notice, such information specified in the notice as to  - 
(a) the identity and address of the person who was driving
the motor vehicle at or about the time of the alleged
5offence; and
(b) the driving licence held by that person.
(2) In addition, a relevant enforcement officer may issue a
notice to any person (other than the affected owner) who was or
should have been in charge of the motor vehicle mentioned in
10subsection (1) (called in this section the affected person),
requiring the affected person to give to the relevant enforcement
officer, within 14 days after being served with the notice, any
information which the affected person has power to give and
which may lead to the identification of the driver.
15(3) An affected owner who fails to give the information as
required of the affected owner under subsection (1) is guilty of
an offence unless the affected owner proves, on a balance of
probabilities, that the affected owner did not know and could not
with reasonable diligence have ascertained the information
20required.
(4) In a case where the driver of a motor vehicle is alleged or is
suspected to be guilty of an offence specified in Part 1 of the
Third Schedule and the affected owner  - 
(a) is guilty of an offence under subsection (3); and
25(b) holds a driving licence,
the affected owner is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to
have been the driver of the motor vehicle at the time of the
occurrence of the firstmentioned offence.
(5) For the purposes of subsection (3), where the affected
30owner is a company, a partnership or an unincorporated body,
the affected owner is not taken to have discharged the burden of
proving that it could not, with reasonable diligence, have
ascertained the information required under subsection (1) unless
21
the affected owner also proves, on a balance of probabilities,
that  - 
(a) the affected owner had kept a proper and accurate
record as required under section 81C(1); but
5 (b) the record shows no person having been permitted by
the affected owner to drive the motor vehicle at or
about the time of the alleged offence.
(6) An affected person who fails to give the information as
required of the affected person under subsection (2) is guilty of
10 an offence.
(7) In this section and sections 81A and 81B, "relevant
enforcement officer" means  - 
(a) a police officer;
(b) an employee of the Authority;
15 (c) an outsourced enforcement officer; or
(d) an individual who is  - 
(i) appointed under this subsection by the Deputy
Commissioner of Police as an authorised
individual for the purposes of this section and
20 section 81A;
(ii) authorised by the Deputy Commissioner of
Police to exercise the powers under this section
and section 81A; and
(iii) acting within that authorisation.
25 Use of computer program to impose requirement to give
information
81A. - (1) The Deputy Commissioner of Police may authorise
the use of a computer program, operated under the Deputy
Commissioner of Police's oversight, for all or any of the
30 following:
(a) to assess, based on any recorded image or video
recording, if there is sufficient evidence that  - 
22
(i) a motor vehicle was involved in an unlawful act
that, if proven, would constitute a prescribed
offence under this Act or the rules (called in this
section the alleged offence) which, for every
5physical element of the offence, there is no
corresponding fault element; and
(ii) a particular motor vehicle is the motor vehicle
mentioned in sub-paragraph (i);
(b) if there is a positive assessment of the evidence
10mentioned in paragraph (a), to cause a notice to be
issued to the owner of the motor vehicle involved
(called in this section the affected owner), requiring
the affected owner to give to the Deputy
Commissioner of Police, within 14 days after being
15served with the notice, such information specified in
the notice as to  - 
(i) the identity and address of the person who was
driving the motor vehicle at or about the time of
the alleged offence; and
20(ii) the driving licence held by that person.
(2) In addition, a relevant enforcement officer may issue a
notice to any person (other than the affected owner) who was or
should have been in charge of the motor vehicle mentioned in
subsection (1) (called in this section the affected person),
25requiring the affected person to give to the relevant enforcement
officer, within 14 days after being served with the notice, any
information which the affected person has power to give and
which may lead to the identification of the driver.
(3) An affected owner who fails to give the information as
30required of the affected owner under subsection (1)(b) is guilty
of an offence unless the affected owner proves, on a balance of
probabilities, that the affected owner did not know and could not
with reasonable diligence have ascertained the information
required.
23
(4) In a case where it is assessed under subsection (1)(a) that a
motor vehicle was involved in an unlawful act that, if proven,
would constitute an alleged offence which is specified in Part 1
of the Third Schedule, and the affected owner  - 
5 (a) is guilty of an offence under subsection (3); and
(b) holds a driving licence,
the affected owner is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to
have been the driver of the motor vehicle at the time of the
occurrence of the firstmentioned offence.
10 (5) For the purposes of subsection (3), where the affected
owner is a company, a partnership or an unincorporated body,
the affected owner is not taken to have discharged the burden of
proving that it could not, with reasonable diligence, have
ascertained the information required under subsection (1)(b)
15 unless the affected owner also proves, on a balance of
probabilities, that  - 
(a) the affected owner had kept a proper and accurate
record as required under section 81C(1); but
(b) the record shows no person having been permitted by
20 the affected owner to drive the motor vehicle at or
about the time of the alleged offence.
(6) An affected person who fails to give the information as
required of the affected person under subsection (2) is guilty of
an offence.
25 (7) Where  - 
(a) a notice under subsection (1)(b) is served on an
affected owner; or
(b) a notice under subsection (2) is served on an affected
person,
30 the affected owner or affected person (as the case may be) may
apply within the prescribed time to the Deputy Commissioner of
Police to revoke the notice on the basis that  - 
24
(c) at the time of the alleged offence, the motor vehicle
mentioned in subsection (1) was not at the place of the
alleged offence; or
(d) at the time of the alleged offence, the motor vehicle
5mentioned in subsection (1) was at the place of the
alleged offence, but the alleged offence had not
occurred.
(8) Where an application is made under subsection (7), the
Deputy Commissioner of Police or any public officer authorised
10by the Deputy Commissioner of Police must  - 
(a) review the evidence mentioned in subsection (1)(a);
and
(b) confirm or revoke the notice which was issued to the
affected owner or affected person, as the case may be.
15(9) Within the prescribed time and subject to any prescribed
conditions, the Deputy Commissioner of Police or any public
officer authorised by the Deputy Commissioner of Police may
take the steps set out in subsection (8) even if no application is
made under subsection (7).
20Other offences and evidential provisions relating to
requirement to give information
81B. - (1) A person required under section 81(1) or (2) or
81A(1)(b) or (2) to give information commits an offence if  - 
(a) the person  - 
25(i) provides, or causes or permits to be provided,
any information in connection with the
requirement, which is false or misleading in a
material particular; and
(ii) knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is
30reckless as to whether, the information is false
or misleading in a material particular; or
(b) the person intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys
any information which the person is required under
25
section 81(1) or (2) or 81A(1)(b) or (2) to give, for the
purpose of not leading to the identification of the
driver.
(2) A person commits an offence if the person pretends, or
5 falsely represents (by word or conduct) himself or herself, to be
a person who was driving the motor vehicle at or about the time
of an alleged offence that is the subject of a requirement made
under section 81(1) or (2) or 81A(1)(b) or (2), knowing that he or
she was not the driver of the motor vehicle.
10 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
or (2) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months
or to both.
(4) Any person required under section 81(1) or (2) or
15 81A(1)(b) or (2) to give information may also be required to
give the information in writing duly signed by that person.
(5) Despite any other written law to the contrary, any
information given under subsection (4), section 81 or 81A by
any person charged with any offence under this Act or the rules
20 or any offence in connection with the driving of a motor vehicle
may be used as evidence without proof of signature at the
hearing of the charge.
(6) Despite any other written law to the contrary, any
statement made by any person to a relevant enforcement
25 officer  - 
(a) that a motor vehicle was on a particular occasion
being driven by or belonged to that person; or
(b) that a motor vehicle belonged to a firm in which that
person also stated that he or she was a partner or to a
30 corporation of which that person stated that he or she
was a director, officer or employee,
is admissible in evidence without proof of signature for the
purpose of determining by whom the motor vehicle was on that
occasion being driven or who was in charge of it or to whom it
35 belonged.
26
(7) Any person who is guilty of an offence under section 81(3)
or (6) or 81A(3) or (6) shall be liable on conviction  - 
(a) to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and
5(b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a
fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.
Record-keeping requirements for corporate owners of
motor vehicles, etc.
1081C. - (1) Where the owner of a motor vehicle is a company, a
partnership or an unincorporated body, it is the duty of the owner
to keep (and to that end designate at least one of its responsible
officers to ensure the keeping of) a proper and accurate record of
each occasion on which any person is permitted by the owner to
15drive the motor vehicle, whether or not the person is a director,
member, partner, officer, employee or agent of the owner or
otherwise, and whether or not the person is permitted to drive the
motor vehicle in the course of his or her employment with the
owner or otherwise.
20(2) The record required to be kept under subsection (1)  - 
(a) must contain  - 
(i) the registration number of the motor vehicle;
(ii) the name, address, driving licence number
(whether local or foreign) and identity card or
25passport number of the person permitted by the
owner of the motor vehicle to drive the motor
vehicle; and
(iii) the date and time, or the period, during which
the motor vehicle is allocated to the person for
30him or her to drive it; and
(b) must be retained by the owner of the motor vehicle for
a period of at least 12 months beginning with the date,
or with the date of the start of the period, mentioned in
paragraph (a)(iii).
27
(3) In subsection (1), "responsible officer" means  - 
(a) for a company, the person for the time being holding
the office of chairperson, managing director or
company secretary of, or any position analogous to
5 any of those offices in, the company;
(b) for a partnership, any partner of the partnership; or
(c) for an unincorporated body of persons, the person for
the time being holding the office of president,
secretary or treasurer of the governing body or a
10 committee (or an equivalent body) of, or any position
analogous to any of those offices in, the body of
persons,
and includes any person carrying out the duties of any such
office mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) if that office is
15 vacant.".
Amendment of section 84
22. In the RT Act, in section 84  - 
(a) replace subsection (9) with  - 
"(9) Where  - 
20 (a) a person (A) is convicted of an offence
under subsection (7) arising from A's
failure to comply with subsection (3); and
(b) the court convicting A is satisfied that A
had in driving or attempting to drive a
25 motor vehicle at the time of the accident
mentioned in subsection (3) caused any
serious injury or death to another person,
the court is to order that A be disqualified from
holding or obtaining a driving licence for a
30 disqualification period that is equal to or longer
than 12 months, unless the court for special reasons
thinks fit to not so order, or to order a shorter
disqualification period."; and
28
(b) after subsection (11), insert  - 
"(12) In this section, "disqualification period", for
an offender (A) convicted of an offence (called in this
subsection the relevant offence) under subsection (7)
5arising from A's failure to comply with subsection (3),
means the period for which A is disqualified from
holding or obtaining a driving licence because of that
conviction for the relevant offence, starting on the
later of the following dates:
10(a) the date of A's conviction for the relevant
offence;
(b) the date A is released from prison and is no
longer serving any sentence of
imprisonment, if A is or was sentenced to
15imprisonment (whether for the relevant
offence or any other offence) before or at
the same hearing where A is sentenced for
the relevant offence.".
Amendment of section 116
2023. In the RT Act, in section 116  - 
(a) in subsection (9), replace ", unless the court for special
reasons thinks fit to not order or to order a shorter period of
disqualification, order that the person be disqualified from
holding or obtaining a driving licence for a period that is
25equal to or longer than 12 months starting on the date of the
person's conviction or, if the person is sentenced to
imprisonment, on the date of the person's release from
prison" with "order that the person be disqualified from
holding or obtaining a driving licence for a disqualification
30period that is equal to or longer than 12 months, unless the
court for special reasons thinks fit to not so order, or to
order a shorter disqualification period"; and
(b) after subsection (9), insert  - 
29
"(10) In this section, "disqualification period", for
an offender convicted of an offence (called in this
subsection the relevant offence) under subsection (7),
means the period for which the offender is
5 disqualified from holding or obtaining a driving
licence because of that conviction for the relevant
offence, starting on the later of the following dates:
(a) the date of the offender's conviction for the
relevant offence;
10 (b) the date the offender is released from
prison and is no longer serving any
sentence of imprisonment, if the offender
is or was sentenced to imprisonment
(whether for the relevant offence or any
15 other offence) before or at the same hearing
where the offender is sentenced for the
relevant offence.".
Amendment of section 133
24. In the RT Act, in section 133, delete subsection (2).
20 PART 2
AMENDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
(THIRD-PARTY RISKS AND COMPENSA TION) ACT 1960
Amendment of section 3
25. In the Motor V ehicles (Third-Party Risks and Compensation)
25 Act 1960, in section 3  - 
(a) in subsection (3), replace "period of disqualification" with
"disqualification period";
(b) in subsection (3), replace "period of 12 months starting on
the date of the person's conviction or, if the person is
30 sentenced to imprisonment, on the date of the person's
release from prison" with "disqualification period of
12 months"; and
30
(c) after subsection (8), insert  - 
"(9) In this section, "disqualification period", for an
offender convicted of an offence (called in this
subsection the relevant offence) under this section,
5means the period for which the offender is
disqualified from holding or obtaining a driving
licence because of that conviction for the relevant
offence, starting on the later of the following dates:
(a) the date of the offender's conviction for the
10relevant offence;
(b) the date the offender is released from
prison and is no longer serving any
sentence of imprisonment, if the offender
is or was sentenced to imprisonment
15(whether for the relevant offence or any
other offence) before or at the same hearing
where the offender is sentenced for the
relevant offence.".
PART 3
20SA VING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISION
Saving and transitional provision
26. For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe any
provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
25enactment of that provision that the Minister may consider necessary
or expedient.
31
EXPLANA TORY STA TEMENT
This Bill seeks to amend the Road Traffic Act 1961 (the RTA) and the Motor
V ehicles (Third-Party Risks and Compensation) Act 1960 (the MVTRCA).
Part 1 (clauses 2 to 24) amends the RTA for the following main purposes:
(a) to provide that where disqualification from holding or obtaining a
driving licence is imposed on an offender who is imprisoned (for any
offence), the disqualification period is to start only after the offender is
released from prison;
(b) to introduce new road traffic offences and amend existing offence and
penalty provisions;
(c) to allow the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Deputy Commissioner)
to authorise the use of a computer program (operated under the Deputy
Commissioner's oversight) to impose information requirements;
(d) to make other miscellaneous amendments.
Part 2 (clause 25) amends the MVTRCA to provide that where disqualification
from holding or obtaining a driving licence is imposed on an offender who is
imprisoned (for any offence), the disqualification period is to start only after the
offender is released from prison.
Part 3 (clause 26) provides for a saving and transitional provision.
Clause 1 relates to the short title and commencement.
PART 1
AMENDMENT OF ROAD TRAFFIC ACT 1961
Part 1 (clauses 2 to 24) amends the RTA.
Clause 2 amends section 36(7) to allow the court to order a person convicted of
a new section 63A offence to be disqualified from holding or obtaining a driving
licence until the person has since the date of the order passed the prescribed test of
competence to drive.
Clause 3 amends section 42(1) to introduce the term "disqualification period".
The clause also inserts the new section 42(5) which defines that term. Under the
new section 42(5)(a), where a disqualification order is made under section 42(1)
and the offender is not imprisoned, the disqualification period starts on the date of
the offender's conviction for the offence in relation to which the disqualification
order is imposed (the relevant offence). However, under the new section 42(5)(b),
if the offender was earlier already sentenced to imprisonment or the offender is
sentenced to imprisonment at the same hearing where the offender is sentenced for
the relevant offence, the disqualification period only begins when the offender is
32
released from prison and is no longer serving any sentence of imprisonment. It
does not matter whether the imprisonment is imposed for the relevant offence or
for an unrelated offence. The disqualification period does not start when an
offender is released for employment preparation, on external placement or for
home detention, as an offender released for any of these purposes is still serving
the offender's sentence of imprisonment.
Clause 4 consequentially replaces the definition of "disqualification period" in
section 42B(2) to make it consistent with the other definitions of "disqualification
period" in the RTA (as amended by the Bill).
Clause 5 amends section 47C(1A) to allow the Deputy Commissioner to
suspend the driving licence of a person who is being investigated for a possible
commission of an offence under the new section 63A.
Clause 6 inserts a new section 63A (Purposeful endangerment using motor
vehicle). Under the new section 63A, it is an offence (called a section 63A
offence) if  - 
(a) a person (X) drives a motor vehicle on a road in such a manner which
endangers the life or safety of any person;
(b) X drives in that manner for the purpose of endangering the life or safety
of a particular person (Y); and
(c) death or grievous hurt is caused to any person (whether or not the
person is Y) by X's driving of the motor vehicle.
For the purposes of a section 63A offence, it does not matter whether the
person whose life or safety is endangered, or the victim to whom death or grievous
hurt is caused, is in a vehicle (including a bicycle).
Due to the egregious nature of a section 63A offence, a person who is guilty of
the offence shall be punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 15 years
and, in addition, shall be liable to a fine or to caning, or to both. The offender will
also be disqualified for life from holding or obtaining a driving licence, unless the
court for special reasons thinks fit to order a shorter disqualification period that is
equal to or longer than 10 years.
Clause 7(a) amends section 64(7)(a) to increase the maximum imprisonment
term that may be imposed for a case of reckless or dangerous driving causing
grievous hurt. Clause 7(b) similarly amends section 64(7)(b) which applies to a
repeat offender. Next, clause 7(c) amends section 64(7)(c) to increase the
maximum imprisonment term which may be additionally imposed on a serious
offender. Clause 7(d) similarly amends section 64(7)(d) which applies to a serious
repeat offender.
33
Clause 7(e) and (g) replaces the term "period of disqualification" with
"disqualification period" so that the new definition inserted by clause 7(j) will
apply.
Clause 7(f) inserts the actual commencement date to help a reader of the RTA.
Clauses 7(h) and 8(f) amend sections 64(11)(a)(ii) and 65(11)(a)(ii),
respectively, to include a past conviction for a section 63A offence for the
purpose of the definition of "repeat offender".
Clause 7(i) aligns subsection (12) with a similar provision in the new
section 63A(4).
Clause 7(j) replaces the definition of "disqualification period" with one similar
to that in the new section 42(5) (see the explanation above for clause 3).
Clause 8(a) and (b) amends section 65(7)(c) and (d), respectively, so that the
maximum imprisonment terms mentioned in those provisions are the same as
those in section 64(7)(c) and (d) (as amended by clause 7(c) and (d)). The effect is
to increase the maximum imprisonment terms which may be additionally imposed
on serious offenders and serious repeat offenders in cases of driving without due
care and attention or reasonable consideration and grievous hurt is caused.
Clause 8(c), (d) and (e) makes similar amendments as those in clause 7(e), (f)
and (g), respectively.
Clause 9 amends section 65AA to provide for the forfeiture of a motor vehicle
that has been used in the commission of the new section 63A offence.
Clause 10 amends section 65B(1) so that it is an offence for a driver to hold a
mobile communication device while the vehicle is in motion on a road or in a
public place. It is no longer an element of the offence that the driver operates any
of the mobile communication device's communicative or other functions.
Clause 10 further makes clear that touching a mobile communication device
secured in a mounting affixed to the vehicle (as intended by the mounting's
manufacturer) does not constitute holding the device. Clause 10(d) simplifies the
definition of "repeat offender" to refer to an offence under subsection (1) from
time to time amended, and the repealed section 65B.
Clause 11 makes 3 key changes to section 67. First, clause 11(b) amends
section 67(1)(b) to extend the offence to persons who drive or attempt to drive a
motor vehicle with the proportion of alcohol in his or her breath or blood being
equal to the prescribed limit.
Second, clause 11(d) inserts the new section 67(1)(c) which makes it an
offence for a person to drive or attempt to drive a motor vehicle on a road or other
public place if the person has a specified substance present in his or her blood. A
definition of "specified substance" will be inserted (by clause 19(g)) into
section 72. It means any substance which is a controlled drug (within the meaning
34
given by section 2 of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973), a psychoactive substance or
an intoxicating substance. The terms "psychoactive substance" and "intoxicating
substance" are already defined in the existing section 72.
Relatedly, clause 11(e) inserts a new section 67(1A) which provides a statutory
defence for the new section 67(1)(c) offence. It is a defence for the defendant to
prove, on a balance of probabilities, 2 things. The first is that the specified
substance was lawfully smoked, inhaled, used or consumed by, or lawfully
administered to or by, the defendant as authorised or exempted under the relevant
legislation. The second is that the defendant did not know or have reason to
believe that the smoking, inhalation, use or consumption by, or the administration
to or by, the defendant of the specified substance would affect his or her capacity
(at the time of the alleged offence) to have proper control of a motor vehicle.
Third, clause 11(f) and (g) introduces the term "disqualification period" into
section 67(2) and (2A), respectively; and clause 11(h) replaces section 67(4) with
a new section 67(4) that includes a definition of that term which is similar to that in
the new section 42(5) (see the explanation above for clause 3). The effect of this
change is that in a future case on the same facts as Ng Soon Kiat v Public
Prosecutor [2026] 1 SLR 45, the offender's disqualification period would
commence on the date of the offender's release from prison (regardless of whether
the offender was imprisoned for an offence under section 67 or for any other
offence). Clause 11(h) also reproduces the definition of "repeat offender" in the
current section 67(4) which is unchanged.
Clause 12 amends section 67A to make an amendment consequential to the
addition of the new section 63A offence to provide enhanced punishment in
respect of the new offence. The clause also inserts the operative date of the
previous amendments to section 67A(3) to help the reader, but the same
amendments were not made to subsection (1) as it will be replaced by
section 71(a) of the Criminal Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025
when it comes into force.
Clause 13(b) makes an amendment to section 68(1)(b) which corresponds to
the amendment to section 67(1)(b). Clause 13(d) introduces a new offence in
section 68(1)(c) which corresponds to the new offence in section 67(1)(c).
Clause 13(e) introduces a new statutory defence in section 68(1A) for the new
offence in section 68(1)(c) which corresponds to the new statutory defence in the
new section 67(1A). Clause 13(f) replaces section 68(2). In the new
section 68(2)(a) and (b), the reference to the proportion of alcohol in the
person's breath or blood is updated to include a reference to the proportion of
alcohol being equal to or exceeding the prescribed limit (see the new
section 68(2)(a)(ii) and (b)(ii)). This is for consistency with the amendments to
sections 67(1)(b) and 68(1)(b) explained above. In addition, the new
section 68(2)(a)(iii) and (b)(iii) is included in light of the new offence in
section 68(1)(c) above.
35
Clause 14 amends section 69 to remove the current requirement for a
preliminary breath test to be conducted before a police officer may require a
person to provide a breath specimen for a breath test. Under the RTA, only the
result from a breath test (and not a preliminary breath test) is admissible as
evidence of the proportion of alcohol in a specimen of breath under section 71A,
provided that the requirements under section 71A are met. Moving forward, a
police officer may conduct a breath test at the first instance at or near the place
where the requirement is made, or if the police officer thinks fit, at a specified
police station. A police officer may also, before requiring a breath test, subject a
person to a passive breath test, which is a contactless test using ambient air
samples to assess whether there is alcohol present in the person's breath. Clause 14
also inserts a new section 69(4A) to provide for enhanced penalties in certain
specified circumstances if a person, without reasonable excuse, fails to provide a
breath specimen for a breath test when required to do so.
Clause 15 amends section 70 for several purposes. First, clause 15 removes the
references to a breath test as a consequence of the amendments to section 69 by
clause 14. Second, under the new section 70(1), a police officer may require a
person (X) to provide a blood specimen if X is arrested under section 69(5), or if X
is a hospital patient and the police officer has reasonable cause to suspect that X
has alcohol in X's body or is under the influence of a drug, a psychoactive
substance or an intoxicating substance. Third, the new section 70(2) sets out
exhaustively the situations when a police officer may require a person arrested
under section 69(5) to provide a blood specimen.
Clause 16 replaces section 71. The new section 71 now provides that before
taking a specimen of breath or blood from a person (X), certain specified persons
must be satisfied that the taking of the specimen does not endanger X.
Clause 17 inserts the new section 71A(1B) to provide that in proceedings for an
offence under the new section 67(1)(c) or 68(1)(c), where a specified substance is
present in a specimen of blood provided by the accused under section 70, it is to be
assumed that the specified substance was present in the accused's blood at the time
of the alleged offence. However, under the new section 71(2A), such an
assumption must not be made if the accused proves that he or she consumed or was
administered the specified substance after he or she had ceased to drive, attempt to
drive or be in charge of a motor vehicle and before he or she had provided the
blood specimen. In addition, the accused must prove that had he or she not done so
(or been so administered) the specified substance would not have been present in
his or her blood.
Clause 18 amends section 71B to extend the provisions to a nurse.
Clause 19 amends section 72 for several purposes. First, clause 19 amends the
definition of "prescribed limit" to lower the prescribed breath alcohol
concentration and blood alcohol concentration limits for the purposes of an
offence under sections 67 and 68. Second, clause 19 inserts new definitions of
36
"nurse", "passive breath test" and "specified substance" for the purposes of the
amendments made to sections 67 to 71B by clauses 11 to 18, respectively.
Clause 20 amends section 79(5) to specify that disqualification takes effect
from the date the person is released from prison and is no longer serving any
sentence of imprisonment.
Clause 21 replaces the existing section 81 with new sections 81, 81A, 81B and
81C. The new section 81 preserves several provisions from the existing section 81,
with adaptations. The new section 81(7) defines the new term "relevant
enforcement officer". The new section 81 thus incorporates the amendments
made by section 74 of the Land Transport and Related Matters Act 2026 (which
has not been brought into force as at 7 July 2026).
The new section 81A(1) provides a new power for the Deputy Commissioner
to authorise the use of a computer program, operated under the Deputy
Commissioner's oversight, to do 2 things. The first is to assess if there is
sufficient evidence that a particular motor vehicle was involved in an unlawful act
that, if proven, would constitute a prescribed offence under the RTA or rules made
under the RTA. Only offences that, for every physical element of the offence, there
is no corresponding fault element, can be prescribed for the purposes of the new
section. The second (which can only be done if the assessment mentioned above is
that there is sufficient evidence) is to cause a notice to be issued to the owner of the
motor vehicle, requiring the owner to provide the same information as may be
required of the owner under the new section 81(1).
The new section 81A(7) allows the recipients of notices served under the new
section 81A(1)(b) or (2) to apply within the prescribed time to the Deputy
Commissioner to revoke the notice on the basis that the motor vehicle in question
was not at the place of the alleged offence, or that it was there but the offence had
not occurred. The new section 81A(8) requires the Deputy Commissioner (or any
public officer authorised by the Deputy Commissioner) to review the evidential
basis for the issuance of the notice to the affected owner or affected person, and
confirm or revoke the notice. This ensures that in every case where an application
is made under the new section 81A(7), the evidential basis for the issuance of the
notice in question undergoes human review and is confirmed or revoked by a
human (the Deputy Commissioner or any public officer authorised by the Deputy
Commissioner, as mentioned above). Even if no application is made under the new
section 81A(7), the new section 81A(9) allows the Deputy Commissioner (or any
public officer authorised by the Deputy Commissioner) to take the steps set out in
the new section 81A(8).
The new sections 81B and 81C contain provisions from the existing section 81
which supplement both the new sections 81 and 81A.
37
Clauses 22 and 23 amend sections 84 and 116, respectively, to introduce the
term "disqualification period" and to insert a definition of that term which is
similar to that in the new section 42(5) (see the explanation above for clause 3).
Clause 24 deletes subsection (2) of section 133.
PART 2
AMENDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
(THIRD-PARTY RISKS AND COMPENSA TION) ACT 1960
Part 2 (clause 25) amends the MVTRCA.
Clause 25 amends section 3(3) to introduce the term "disqualification period",
and inserts the new section 3(9) which provides a definition for that term which is
similar to that in the new section 42(5) of the RTA (see the explanation above for
clause 3).
PART 3
SA VING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISION
Part 3 (clause 26) provides for a power to make saving and transitional
provisions.
Clause 26 empowers the Minister to make regulations prescribing any
provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the enactment of
any provision of the Bill, that the Minister may consider necessary or expedient.
The Minister has power to do so only within 2 years after the commencement of
the provision.
EXPENDITURE OF PUBLIC MONEY
This Bill will not involve the Government in any extra financial expenditure.
38