Civil Defence Shelter and Fire Safety
(Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill
Bill No. 15/2026.
Read the first time on 4 August 2026.
A BILL
intituled
An Act to amend the Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997 and the Fire
Safety Act 1993, and to repeal the Chemical Weapons (Prohibition)
(Amendment) Act 2019.
Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the
Parliament of Singapore, as follows:
Short title and commencement
1. This Act is the Civil Defence Shelter and Fire Safety
(Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2026 and comes into operation
on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the Gazette.
5 PART 1
AMENDMENT OF CIVIL DEFENCE SHELTER ACT 1997
Amendment of section 2
2. In the Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997 (called in this Part the CD
Shelter Act), in section 2(1), after the definition of "public shelter",
10 insert  - 
" "regulated shelter product" means any equipment prescribed
as such that is installed or to be installed in a household
shelter or storey shelter;".
New Part 2A
15 3. In the CD Shelter Act, after Part 2, insert  - 
"PART 2A
REGULA TED SHELTER PRODUCTS FOR
HOUSEHOLD SHELTERS AND STOREY SHELTERS
Interpretation of this Part
20 4A. In this Part and section 28  - 
"accredited certification body" means a person that
certifies compliance of a regulated shelter product of a
particular type or description with the applicable
standard for that regulated shelter product, and is
25 accredited under the Singapore Accreditation
Council's Certification Body Accreditation Scheme
that is administered by the Enterprise Singapore Board;
"accredited laboratory" means a person providing
laboratory testing services that  - 
2
(a) is accredited under the Singapore Accreditation
Council's Laboratory Accreditation Scheme
that is administered by the Enterprise
Singapore Board;
5(b) is recognised under a bilateral mutual
recognition agreement or arrangement between
Singapore and any other country; or
(c) is recognised under a multilateral mutual
recognition agreement or arrangement between
10Singapore and 2 or more other countries;
"Appeal Advisory Board" means the Appeal Advisory
Board appointed by the Minister under section 4M(1);
"applicable standard", in relation to a regulated shelter
product, means the standard for that regulated shelter
15product that is specified in the specifications;
"certificate of conformity", in relation to a regulated shelter
product of a type or description specified in the
certificate, means a certificate issued by an accredited
certification body as to its compliance with the
20applicable standard for that regulated shelter product;
"compliant shelter product" means a regulated shelter
product  - 
(a) that is tested by an accredited laboratory for
compliance with the applicable standard for that
25regulated shelter product;
(b) that complies with the applicable standard for
that regulated shelter product;
(c) of a type or description for which a valid
certificate of conformity is issued; and
30(d) that is not prescribed under section 4I(3) as a
non-compliant shelter product;
"Enterprise Singapore Board" means the Enterprise
Singapore Board established by section 3 of the
Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018;
3
"foreign person" means a person who is not a Singapore
person;
"non-compliant shelter product" means a regulated shelter
product that is not a compliant shelter product;
5 "offer to supply", in relation to a regulated shelter product,
includes an attempt to supply or exposure for supply;
"Singapore person" means a person who is  - 
(a) a citizen of Singapore;
(b) a body corporate or corporation incorporated or
10 constituted under the law of Singapore; or
(c) a person domiciled in Singapore;
"supply", in relation to a regulated shelter product,
includes  - 
(a) the supply of the regulated shelter product by
15 way of sale (including by way of barter or
exchange), lease, loan, hire or hire-purchase;
(b) causing or allowing the supply of the regulated
shelter product;
(c) the supply of the regulated shelter product in
20 connection with any agreement; and
(d) receiving, sending or delivering the regulated
shelter product for supply;
"valid certificate of conformity" means a certificate of
conformity that  - 
25 (a) is issued  - 
(i) to a Singapore person; or
(ii) to a foreign person who has, at the time of
the issue, appointed a local representative
that is a Singapore person; and
30 (b) is not expired, terminated or otherwise
suspended or cancelled by an accredited
certification body, under this Act or otherwise.
4
False test reports for regulated shelter products
4B. - (1) An accredited laboratory that issues a false test
report in respect of a regulated shelter product of a particular
type or description, knowing that the test report is false, shall be
5guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.
(2) An accredited laboratory that issues a false test report in
respect of a regulated shelter product of a particular type or
10description, reckless or negligent as to whether the test report is
false, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000.
(3) In this section, "false test report", in relation to a regulated
shelter product of a particular type or description (P), means a
15test report that  - 
(a) states the result of a test conducted on P for
compliance with the applicable standard for that
regulated shelter product; and
(b) is false or misleading in any material particular.
20Giving false information to accredited certification body
4C. - (1) Any person who gives false information to an
accredited certification body for the purposes of obtaining a
certificate of conformity for a regulated shelter product of a
particular type or description, knowing that the information is
25false, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.
(2) Any person who gives false information to an accredited
certification body for the purposes of obtaining a certificate of
30conformity for a regulated shelter product of a particular type or
description, reckless or negligent as to whether the information
is false, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000.
5
Certification of regulated shelter products
4D. - (1) A person that is not an accredited certification body
commits an offence if  - 
(a) the person certifies, or holds out or advertises in any
5 way that the person is willing to certify, that a
regulated shelter product of a particular type or
description complies with the applicable standard
for that regulated shelter product; and
(b) the person  - 
10 (i) knows that it is not an accredited certification
body; or
(ii) is reckless or negligent as to whether it is an
accredited certification body.
(2) An accredited certification body commits an offence if the
15 accredited certification body issues a certificate of conformity
for a regulated shelter product of a particular type or description
(P) that does not comply with the applicable standard for that
regulated shelter product if the accredited certification body  - 
(a) knows that P does not so comply; or
20 (b) is reckless or negligent as to whether P so complies.
(3) An accredited certification body that issues a certificate of
conformity for a regulated shelter product of a particular type or
description (P) must cancel the certificate of conformity  - 
(a) as soon as practicable after the accredited certification
25 body knows or has reasonable cause to believe
(whether by a test or an analysis conducted under
section 4G(1) or otherwise) that P does not comply
with the applicable standard for that regulated shelter
product; or
30 (b) where the specifications for the regulated shelter
product require any post-certification test to be
conducted for the regulated shelter product within a
specified period after the issue of the certificate of
conformity  -  as soon as practicable after the
6
accredited certification body knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the post-certification test is not
conducted within the specified period.
(4) A person who is guilty of an offence under
5subsection (1)(b)(i) or (2)(a)  - 
(a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both; and
(b) in the case of a continuing contravention of
10subsection (1)(b)(i)  - 
(i) shall be liable on conviction to an additional
fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part
of a day during which the contravention
continues; and
15(ii) if the contravention continues after the
conviction, shall be guilty of a further offence
and shall be liable on conviction of this further
offence to a fine not exceeding $2,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the
20contravention continues after conviction.
(5) A person who is guilty of an offence under
subsection (1)(b)(ii) or (2)(b)  - 
(a) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000; and
25(b) in the case of a continuing contravention of
subsection (1)(b)(ii)  - 
(i) shall be liable on conviction to an additional
fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part
of a day during which the contravention
30continues; and
(ii) if the contravention continues after the
conviction, shall be guilty of a further offence
and shall be liable on conviction of this further
offence to a fine not exceeding $2,000 for every
7
day or part of a day during which the
contravention continues after conviction.
(6) An accredited certification body that contravenes
subsection (3)(a) or (b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
5 be liable on conviction  - 
(a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and
(b) in the case of a continuing contravention of
subsection (3)(a) or (b) (as the case may be), to an
10 additional fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or
part of a day during which the contravention
continues,
and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the
accredited certification body shall be guilty of a further offence
15 and shall be liable on conviction of this further offence to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of a day during which
the contravention continues after conviction.
Supply of regulated shelter products
4E. - (1) A person (whether or not in Singapore) who  - 
20 (a) supplies or offers to supply to a person in Singapore
any non-compliant shelter product as a compliant
shelter product or for use as a regulated shelter
product; or
(b) in the course of such supply or offer, represents that
25 the non-compliant shelter product is a compliant
shelter product or is fit for use as a regulated shelter
product,
knowing that the non-compliant shelter product is a
non-compliant shelter product, shall be guilty of an offence.
30 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
shall be liable on conviction  - 
(a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both; and
8
(b) in the case of a continuing contravention, to an
additional fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or
part of a day during which the contravention
continues,
5and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the
person shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on
conviction of this further offence to a fine not exceeding $2,000
for every day or part of a day during which the contravention
continues after conviction.
10(3) A person (whether or not in Singapore) who  - 
(a) supplies or offers to supply to a person in Singapore
any non-compliant shelter product as a compliant
shelter product or for use as a regulated shelter
product; or
15(b) in the course of such supply or offer, represents that
the non-compliant shelter product is a compliant
shelter product or is fit for use as a regulated shelter
product,
reckless or negligent as to whether the non-compliant shelter
20product is a non-compliant shelter product, shall be guilty of an
offence.
(4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3)
shall be liable on conviction  - 
(a) to a fine not exceeding $50,000; and
25(b) in the case of a continuing contravention, to an
additional fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or
part of a day during which the contravention
continues,
and if the contravention continues after the conviction, the
30person shall be guilty of a further offence and shall be liable on
conviction of this further offence to a fine not exceeding $2,000
for every day or part of a day during which the contravention
continues after conviction.
9
(5) Where an offence under subsection (1) or (3) is committed
by a person outside Singapore, the person may be dealt with in
respect of that offence as if it had been committed in Singapore.
Installation of non-compliant shelter products
5 4F. - (1) A relevant person who installs, or causes to be
installed, in any household shelter or storey shelter  - 
(a) any non-compliant shelter product, knowing that it is
a non-compliant shelter product; or
(b) any regulated shelter product, knowing that the
10 manner in which it is installed impairs or is likely
to impair the safe and efficient use of the household
shelter or storey shelter, as the case may be,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
15 exceeding 2 years or to both.
(2) A relevant person who installs, or causes to be installed, in
any household shelter or storey shelter any non-compliant
shelter product, reckless or negligent as to whether it is a
non-compliant shelter product, shall be guilty of an offence and
20 shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000.
(3) A relevant person who installs, or causes to be installed, in
any household shelter or storey shelter any regulated shelter
product in a manner that impairs or is likely to impair the safe
and efficient use of the household shelter or storey shelter (as the
25 case may be), reckless or negligent as to whether the manner in
which the regulated shelter product is installed impairs or is
likely to impair the safe and efficient use of the household
shelter or storey shelter (as the case may be), shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
30 $50,000.
(4) It is a defence to a prosecution for an offence under
subsection (2) if the relevant person proves, on a balance of
probabilities, that the relevant person had taken all reasonable
steps to ensure that the regulated shelter product so installed was
10
a compliant shelter product at the time the regulated shelter
product was delivered to the relevant person.
(5) It is a defence to a prosecution for an offence under
subsection (3) if the relevant person proves, on a balance of
5probabilities, that the relevant person had taken all reasonable
steps to ensure that the regulated shelter product was installed in
accordance with the specifications for the regulated shelter
product.
(6) Subsections (1)(a) and (2) do not apply if the regulated
10shelter product in question is a non-compliant shelter product
only by reason that the certificate of conformity for the regulated
shelter product expires or is suspended or terminated after the
regulated shelter product is delivered to the relevant person.
(7) In this section  - 
15"builder" has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
Building Control Act 1989;
"relevant person"  - 
(a) in relation to a household shelter provided for a
house, means the owner, occupier or builder of
20the house;
(b) in relation to a household shelter provided for a
flat in a building, means the owner or occupier
of the flat or the builder of the building; or
(c) in relation to a storey shelter provided for any
25storey of a building, means  - 
(i) the owner or builder of the building; or
(ii) the occupier of any part of that storey of
the building.
Commissioner may require testing of regulated shelter
30product
4G. - (1) The Commissioner may, by written notice to any of
the following persons, require the person to submit a regulated
shelter product of a particular type or description (P) or samples
11
of P to an accredited laboratory for the purpose of testing or
analysis within the time specified in the notice:
(a) an accredited certification body that has issued a
certificate of conformity for P;
5 (b) a person carrying on a trade or business that consists
of or includes the supply of P (called in this section
the supplier);
(c) a person to whom a certificate of conformity for P is
issued (called in this section the certificate holder).
10 (2) Where the accredited certification body, supplier or
certificate holder does not have possession, charge or control
of P as specified in the written notice, any person who has such
possession, charge or control must render all necessary and
reasonable assistance to enable the accredited certification body,
15 supplier or certificate holder (as the case may be) to comply with
the notice.
(3) An accredited certification body, a supplier or a certificate
holder who, without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to
comply with any requirement of the Commissioner under
20 subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.
(4) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence.
(5) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3)
or (4) shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
25 $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months
or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.
Commissioner may give directions relating to regulated
30 shelter products
4H. - (1) The Commissioner may, by written notice, give one
or more of the directions mentioned in subsection (2) (as
applicable) to any person with possession, charge or control of a
regulated shelter product or who supplied a regulated shelter
12
product, if the Commissioner has reasonable grounds to believe
that  - 
(a) the direction is necessary for public safety; and
(b) the regulated shelter product  - 
5(i) is a non-compliant shelter product; or
(ii) was installed in a manner that impairs or is
likely to impair the safe and efficient use of any
household shelter or storey shelter in which the
regulated shelter product is installed.
10(2) The directions mentioned in subsection (1) are the
following:
(a) recall the non-compliant shelter product;
(b) cease supplying the non-compliant shelter product;
(c) remove the regulated shelter product from the
15household shelter or storey shelter in which the
regulated shelter product is installed;
(d) dispose of the non-compliant shelter product recalled
under paragraph (a) in any manner required by the
Commissioner;
20(e) rectify any contravention of the specifications for the
regulated shelter product in the installation of the
regulated shelter product.
(3) In relation to a direction mentioned in subsection (2)(a),
(c), (d) or (e), the Commissioner  - 
25(a) may specify, in the direction, the manner in which the
recall, removal, disposal or rectification (as the case
may be) is to be conducted; and
(b) must specify, in the direction, the period within which
the recall, removal, disposal or rectification (as the
30case may be) is to be completed.
(4) A person to whom a direction mentioned in
subsection (2)(a), (c), (d) or (e) has been given must give
13
written notice to the Commissioner of the completion of the
recall, removal, disposal or rectification (as the case may be) as
soon as practicable after that completion.
(5) Subject to subsection (6), a person who, without
5 reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with the
Commissioner's direction under subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction  - 
(a) to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and
10 (b) to an additional fine not exceeding $1,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the person refuses or
fails to comply with the direction after the expiry of
the period specified in the direction.
(6) If the refusal or failure to comply in respect of which the
15 person is convicted under subsection (5) continues after the
conviction, the person shall be guilty of a further offence and
shall be liable on conviction of this further offence to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
refusal or failure to comply continues after conviction.
20 (7) A person who is aggrieved by any direction of the
Commissioner under subsection (1) may, within 14 days after
being notified of the direction, appeal to the Minister.
(8) A direction of the Commissioner under subsection (1)
takes effect despite an appeal against that direction being made
25 to the Minister.
Commissioner may give directions in relation to
certificates of conformity
4I. - (1) The Commissioner may, by written notice to the
accredited certification body that issued a certificate of
30 conformity for a regulated shelter product of a particular type
or description (P), direct the accredited certification body to
cancel the certificate of conformity within the time specified in
the notice, if  - 
14
(a) the accredited certification body contravenes
section 4D(2) or (3) in relation to that certificate of
conformity; or
(b) the person to whom the certificate of conformity is
5issued refuses or fails to comply with a requirement
under section 4G(1) in respect of P or a sample of P.
(2) The Commissioner may, by written notice to an accredited
certification body, direct the accredited certification body not to
issue any certificate of conformity to a person for the period
10specified in the notice if the Commissioner has reason to believe
that the person has contravened section 4E(1) or (3).
(3) The Minister may prescribe that a regulated shelter product
of a specified class or description (Q) is a non-compliant shelter
product if the accredited certification body that issued the
15certificate of conformity in respect of Q refuses or fails to
comply with a direction under subsection (1) or (2) in respect of
that certificate.
(4) The Commissioner must, before making the direction
under subsection (1)(b), give the person to whom the certificate
20of conformity is issued  - 
(a) written notice of the Commissioner's intention to
make the direction; and
(b) an opportunity to submit reasons, within 14 days after
the date the notice is given, as to why the direction
25should not be made.
(5) The Commissioner must, before making the direction
under subsection (1)(a) or (2), give the accredited certification
body in respect of which the direction applies  - 
(a) written notice of the Commissioner's intention to
30make the direction; and
(b) an opportunity to submit reasons, within 14 days after
the date the notice is given, as to why the direction
should not be made.
15
(6) Despite subsections (4)(b) and (5)(b), the Commissioner
may specify a time, being less than 14 days after the date the
notice mentioned in subsection (4) or (5) (as the case may be) is
given, if the Commissioner is of the opinion that it is in the
5 public interest for the direction to be made as soon as possible.
(7) The Commissioner may, at any time, cancel a direction
given under subsection (1) or (2).
(8) An accredited certification body that, without reasonable
excuse, refuses or fails to comply with the Commissioner's
10 direction under subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction  - 
(a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both; and
(b) in the case of a continuing refusal or failure to comply,
15 to an additional fine not exceeding $1,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the refusal or failure
continues.
(9) A person who is aggrieved by any direction of the
Commissioner under subsection (1) or (2) may, within
20 14 days after being notified of the direction, appeal to the
Minister.
(10) A direction of the Commissioner under subsection (1) or
(2) takes effect despite an appeal against that direction being
made to the Minister.
25 Power to enter premises to carry out direction upon notice
or under warrant
4J. - (1) If a person to whom a direction under section 4H(1)
is given refuses or fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply
with the direction, the Commissioner may  - 
30 (a) authorise any authorised person to carry out the
direction; and
(b) recover the costs and expenses reasonably incurred in
carrying out the direction as a debt due to the
Government from that person.
16
(2) An authorised person may enter any premises at any
reasonable time to carry out the direction under section 4H(1)
after giving at least 24 hours' notice of the intention to do so to
the owner or occupier of the premises.
5(3) Before entering the premises under subsection (2), an
authorised person must produce, if so required  - 
(a) the authorised person's original identity card or any
identification card that the Commissioner directs to be
carried by the authorised person as proof of the
10authorised person's identity; and
(b) a duly authenticated document showing the
authorised person's authority.
(4) A Magistrate may by warrant authorise an authorised
person to enter any premises, with such force as may be
15necessary, if the Magistrate is satisfied, on sworn information in
writing  - 
(a) that the authorised person needs to enter into any
premises to carry out a direction under section 4H(1);
and
20(b) that  - 
(i) entry into the premises has been refused, or
such refusal is likely; or
(ii) the premises are unoccupied or the owner or
occupier is temporarily absent.
25(5) The warrant continues in force until the purpose for which
the entry is necessary has been satisfied.
(6) If the owner or occupier is present when an authorised
person seeks to execute the warrant, the authorised person
must  - 
30(a) identify himself or herself to the owner or occupier;
(b) produce to the owner or occupier the authorised
person's identity card or identification card and the
17
duly authenticated document mentioned in
subsection (3);
(c) show the owner or occupier the warrant; and
(d) if required, give the owner or occupier a copy of the
5 warrant.
(7) If the owner or occupier is not present when an authorised
person seeks to execute the warrant, but some other person who
appears to be in charge of the premises is present, then
subsection (6) applies to that other person as if that other
10 person were the owner or occupier.
(8) An authorised person entering the premises under a
warrant issued under subsection (4) may do all or any of the
following:
(a) break open any outer or inner door or window leading
15 to the premises;
(b) enter any part of the premises with such force as may
be necessary;
(c) remove by force any obstruction to the entry.
(9) An authorised person entering the premises under
20 subsection (2), or under a warrant issued under subsection (4),
may do any of the following:
(a) take with him or her such other persons as may be
necessary;
(b) remove or demolish any fixtures or fittings in the
25 premises if the removal or demolition is necessary for
carrying out the direction under section 4H(1).
(10) If the premises are unoccupied at the time of entry, the
authorised person must leave the premises as effectually secured
against trespassers as the authorised person found the premises.
30 (11) Subject to subsection (10), the Commissioner is not liable
to compensate the owner or occupier for any loss (including
reinstatement costs) incurred by the owner or occupier, or for
18
any damage caused to the premises, as a result of anything done
with reasonable care and in good faith under subsection (9)(b).
(12) In this section and section 4K, "premises"  - 
(a) in relation to a household shelter, means the house or
5flat for which the household shelter is provided; or
(b) in relation to a storey shelter, means the storey of the
building for which the storey shelter is provided.
Power to enter premises to carry out direction without
notice or warrant
104K. - (1) If  - 
(a) a person to whom a direction under section 4H(1) is
given refuses or fails to comply with the direction;
and
(b) the Commissioner has reasonable grounds to believe
15that a non-compliant shelter product installed in a
household shelter or storey shelter provided for any
premises is posing an imminent danger affecting
public safety,
the Commissioner may  - 
20(c) authorise any authorised person to enter those
premises without warrant to carry out the direction;
and
(d) recover the costs and expenses reasonably incurred in
carrying out the direction as a debt due to the
25Government from that person.
(2) If the owner or occupier of the premises is present when an
authorised person seeks to enter the premises, the authorised
person must produce to the owner or occupier the authorised
person's identity card or identification card and the duly
30authenticated document mentioned in section 4J(3).
(3) If the owner or occupier is not present when entry under
subsection (2) is sought, but some other person who appears to
be in charge of the premises is present, then that subsection
19
applies to that other person as if that other person were the owner
or occupier.
(4) An authorised person entering the premises under this
section may do all or any of the following:
5 (a) take with him or her such other persons as may be
necessary;
(b) break open any outer or inner door or window leading
to the premises;
(c) forcibly enter the premises and every part of the
10 premises;
(d) remove by force any obstruction to the entry;
(e) remove or demolish any fixtures or fittings in the
premises if the removal or demolition is necessary for
carrying out the direction under section 4H(1).
15 (5) If the premises are unoccupied at the time of entry, the
authorised person must leave the premises as effectually secured
against trespassers as the authorised person found the premises.
(6) Subject to subsection (5), the Commissioner is not liable to
compensate the owner or occupier for any loss (including
20 reinstatement costs) incurred by the owner or occupier, or for
any damage caused to the premises, as a result of anything done
with reasonable care and in good faith under subsection (4)(e).
Appeals to Minister
4L. - (1) This section applies to every appeal to the Minister
25 made under this Part.
(2) An appeal to the Minister must be made in the manner
prescribed.
(3) The Minister may determine an appeal against a direction
given by the Commissioner  - 
30 (a) by confirming the direction in whole or varying it in
part; or
(b) by reversing the direction.
20
(4) Before determining an appeal, the Minister may consult
the Appeal Advisory Board.
(5) In deciding an appeal, the Minister may have regard to any
report made to the Minister by the Appeal Advisory Board.
5(6) The Minister's decision on any appeal is final.
(7) The Minister may designate any of the following persons
to hear and determine, in the Minister's place, any appeal under
this Part:
(a) the Second Minister (if any) for his or her Ministry;
10(b) a Senior Minister of State or Minister of State for his
or her Ministry;
(c) a Senior Parliamentary Secretary or Parliamentary
Secretary assisting the Minister under this Part;
(d) any public officer in his or her Ministry not
15subordinate to the Commissioner whose direction is
appealed against.
(8) Any reference to the Minister in subsections (1) to (6)
includes a reference to a person designated under subsection (7).
Appeal Advisory Board
204M. - (1) The Appeal Advisory Board consists of a
Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson and such other members as
the Minister may appoint.
(2) The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and members of the
Appeal Advisory Board  - 
25(a) hold their office for such period as the Minister may
determine, and may be re-appointed;
(b) may at any time be removed from office by the
Minister; and
(c) may at any time resign from their office by writing
30addressed to the Minister.".
21
Amendment of section 26
4. In the CD Shelter Act, in section 26(1), replace "$500" with
"$5,000".
Amendment of section 28
5 5. In the CD Shelter Act, in section 28(1)  - 
(a) after paragraph (c), insert  - 
"(ca) in relation to the certification of regulated
shelter products  - 
(i) to prescribe the duties of accredited
10 certification bodies;
(ii) to prescribe the duties of a local
representative appointed by a foreign
person to whom a certificate of
conformity is issued; and
15 (iii) to prescribe the duties of a person to
whom a certificate of conformity is
issued;"; and
(b) after paragraph (f), insert  - 
"(fa) to prescribe the procedure for the Appeal
20 Advisory Board;
(fb) to prescribe the procedure for, or any other
matter relating to, an appeal to the
Minister;".
PART 2
25 AMENDMENT OF FIRE SAFETY ACT 1993
Amendment of section 2
6. In the Fire Safety Act 1993 (called in this Part the FS Act), in
section 2(1)  - 
(a) after the definition of "Commissioner", insert  - 
22
" "Enterprise Singapore Board" means the Enterprise
Singapore Board established by section 3 of the
Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018;
"external fire safety measure"  - 
5(a) means any fire safety measure that is
installed or kept on the exterior of or
outside a building; but
(b) does not include any access road,
accessway or other installation that is
10provided, used or designed to be used
for the purpose of providing access to
a building in order to extinguish,
attack, prevent or limit a fire in or at
the building;";
15(b) in the definition of "fire hazard", after paragraph (b),
insert  - 
"(ba) the obstruction of any access road,
accessway or other installation that is
provided, used or designed to be used for
20the purpose of providing access to a
building in order to extinguish, attack,
prevent or limit a fire in or at the building;
(bb) the obstruction of or any interference with
the normal operation of any fire safety
25measure in a building such as might
prevent or impede the timely and
effective use of the fire safety measure;
(bc) the obstruction of or any interference with
the normal operation of any external fire
30safety measure such as might prevent or
impede the timely and effective use of the
external fire safety measure;";
(c) in the definition of "fire safety measures", replace "or
works" with ", works, road or other thing provided,";
23
(d) in the definition of "fire safety measures", after
paragraph (e), insert  - 
. "Illustration
An access road or accessway that is provided, used or designed
5 to be used to provide access to any premises or place for the purpose
of extinguishing, attacking, preventing or limiting a fire is a fire
safety measure."; and
(e) in the definition of "owner", in paragraph (d), after "fire
safety measure is", insert "provided,".
10 Amendment of section 9
7. In the FS Act, in section 9(2), replace "a term of 2 years" with
"such term as the Minister may determine,".
Amendment of section 18
8. In the FS Act, in section 18  - 
15 (a) after subsection (1), insert  - 
"(1A) The power to require a person to provide any
information or produce any book or document under
subsection (1)(c) includes the power  - 
(a) to require that person to provide an
20 explanation of the information, book or
document;
(b) if the information is not provided or the
book or document is not produced, to
require that person to state, to the best of
25 that person's knowledge and belief, where
it is; and
(c) if the information is recorded otherwise
than in legible form, to require the
information to be made available to the
30 Commissioner or authorised member in
legible form.";
24
(b) in subsection (4)(a), replace "any information or produce
any book or document, or any copy of the book or
document, required" with "any information or explanation,
produce any book or document, or any copy of the book or
5document, or comply with any other requirement";
(c) in subsection (4)(c), after "information", insert "or
explanation"; and
(d) in subsection (4)(d), replace "information" with "any
information or explanation".
10Amendment of section 21
9. In the FS Act, in section 21  - 
(a) in subsection (1)(c), replace the full-stop at the end with a
semi-colon;
(b) in subsection (1), after paragraph (c), insert  - 
15"(d) to exercise a power or do anything
authorised in section 86A(1), (2), (3), (4),
(6) or (8);
(e) to do anything authorised in section 86A(5)
when exercising a power in
20section 86A(3)(a) or (4).";
(c) in subsection (3), after "28(1),", insert "86A,"; and
(d) in subsection (3)(b), after "section 28", insert ", 86A".
Amendment of section 26
10. In the FS Act, in section 26  - 
25(a) in the section heading, replace "to cause, etc., specified
fire hazard" with "of building to cause, etc., certain fire
hazards";
(b) in subsection (1), replace "or omits to do anything that"
with "any act which";
30(c) after subsection (2), insert  - 
25
"(2A) An owner or occupier of any building
commits an offence if the owner or occupier causes,
or does any act which is likely to cause  - 
(a) the obstruction of any access road,
5 accessway or other installation that is
provided, used or designed to be used for
the purpose of providing access to the
building in order to extinguish, attack,
prevent or limit a fire in or at the
10 building; or
(b) the obstruction of or any interference with
the normal operation of any fire safety
measure in the building such as might
prevent or impede the timely and effective
15 use of the fire safety measure.
(2B) An owner or occupier of any building commits
an offence if the owner or occupier knows or ought to
know that  - 
(a) there is an obstruction as described in
20 subsection (2A)(a) in relation to the
building; or
(b) an obstruction as described in
subsection (2A)(a) in relation to the
building is likely to occur,
25 but does not take reasonable steps to remove the
obstruction or prevent the obstruction from occurring,
as the case may be.
(2C) An owner or occupier of any building commits
an offence if the owner or occupier knows or ought to
30 know that  - 
(a) there is an obstruction or interference as
described in subsection (2A)(b) in relation
to the building; or
26
(b) an obstruction or any interference as
described in subsection (2A)(b) in
relation to the building is likely to occur,
but does not take reasonable steps to remove the
5obstruction or bring the interference to an end or
prevent the obstruction or interference from
occurring, as the case may be."; and
(d) replace subsection (4) with  - 
"(4) The offences under subsections (1) and (2A)
10are strict liability offences.".
New section 26A
11. In the FS Act, after section 26, insert  - 
"Offence relating to external fire safety measures
26A. - (1) An owner of any external fire safety measure
15commits an offence if the owner causes, or does any act which is
likely to cause  - 
(a) the external fire safety measure not to be in proper
working order; or
(b) the obstruction of or any interference with the normal
20operation of the external fire safety measure such as
might prevent or impede the timely and effective use
of the external fire safety measure.
(2) An owner of any external fire safety measure commits an
offence if the owner knows or ought to know that the external
25fire safety measure is not in proper working order but does not
take reasonable steps to restore the external fire safety measure
to proper working order.
(3) An owner of any external fire safety measure commits an
offence if the owner knows or ought to know that  - 
30(a) there is an obstruction or interference as described in
subsection (1)(b) in relation to the external fire safety
measure; or
27
(b) an obstruction or any interference as described in
subsection (1)(b) in relation to the external fire safety
measure is likely to occur,
but does not take reasonable steps to remove the obstruction or
5 bring the interference to an end or prevent the obstruction or
interference from occurring, as the case may be.
(4) The offences under subsection (1)(a) and (b) are strict
liability offences.".
Replacement of section 27
10 12. In the FS Act, replace section 27 with  - 
"Offence for any person to cause fire hazards
27. A person commits an offence if the person  - 
(a) causes, or does any act which is likely to cause, any of
the following:
15 (i) any fire safety measure in any premises
(including any external fire safety measure)
not to be in proper working order;
(ii) the obstruction of any access road, accessway or
other installation that is provided, used or
20 designed to be used for the purpose of
providing access to any building in order to
extinguish, attack, prevent or limit a fire in or at
the building;
(iii) the obstruction of or any interference with the
25 normal operation of any fire safety measure in
any building such as might prevent or impede
the timely and effective use of the fire safety
measure;
(iv) the obstruction of or any interference with the
30 normal operation of any external fire safety
measure such as might prevent or impede the
timely and effective use of the external fire
safety measure;
28
(v) the obstruction of any escape route,
passageway, common property or limited
common property of any building  - 
(A) such as might render escape in the event
5of fire more difficult; and
(B) which obstruction cannot be easily
removed by an individual escaping from
a fire; and
(b) knows or ought to know that the act causes or is likely
10to cause the effect mentioned in paragraph (a)(i), (ii),
(iii), (iv) or (v), as the case may be.".
Amendment of section 45
13. In the FS Act, in section 45(3), replace "a term of 2 years" with
"such term as the Minister may determine".
15Amendment of section 62
14. In the FS Act, in section 62(3)  - 
(a) after paragraph (b), insert  - 
"(ba) where  - 
(i) fire safety works have been carried
20out in relation to a building; and
(ii) no fire safety certificate or temporary
fire permit has been granted in
respect of the building under
section 60,
25(ba) on the owner of the building or the occupier
of that part of the building affected by the
order, as the case may be;";
(b) in paragraph (c), delete "or" at the end;
(c) in paragraph (d), replace the comma at the end with "; or";
30and
(d) after paragraph (d), insert  - 
29
"(e) where  - 
(i) fire safety works have been carried
out in relation to a relevant pipeline
or part of the relevant pipeline; and
5 (ii) no fire safety certificate or temporary
fire permit has been granted in
respect of the relevant pipeline or
part of the relevant pipeline under
section 60,
10 (e) on the pipeline owner or the person for
whom the relevant pipeline works have
been carried out,".
Amendment of section 66
15. In the FS Act, in section 66, delete the definition of "Enterprise
15 Singapore Board".
Amendment of section 73
16. In the FS Act, in section 73(6), replace "subsection (1)" with
"subsection (5)".
Amendment of section 74
20 17. In the FS Act, in section 74  - 
(a) in subsection (5), replace "subsection (2)" with
"subsection (1)(a) or (2)"; and
(b) in subsection (7), replace "subsection (2)" with
"subsection (1) or (2)".
25 Amendment of section 77
18. In the FS Act, in section 77(1)  - 
(a) before the definition of "dispensing", insert  - 
" "applicable premises" means any premises used for
the storage or keeping of any class of petroleum
30
or any flammable material to which a class licence
applies;
"class licence" means a class licence determined
under an order made under section 84A(1), and
5includes a class licence as from time to time
varied under section 84B;
"class licensee" means a person to whom a class
licence applies;"; and
(b) in the definition of "licensed premises", replace
10"section 78" with "section 78(a)".
Replacement of section 78
19. In the FS Act, replace section 78 with  - 
"Storage of petroleum and flammable materials
78. A person must not store or keep, or cause to be stored or
15kept, any class of petroleum or any flammable material unless
either of the following applies:
(a) the person stores or keeps, or causes to be stored or
kept, such class of petroleum or flammable
material  - 
20(i) in or on licensed premises;
(ii) under the authority of and in accordance with
the provisions of a storage licence granted by
the Commissioner for the licensed premises and
every condition specified in that licence; and
25(iii) in such quantities, in such manner and in
accordance with such requirements as are
prescribed in relation to such class of
petroleum or flammable material;
(b) the person is a class licensee authorised under a class
30licence to store or keep, or cause to be stored or kept,
such class of petroleum or flammable material in or
on any applicable premises.".
31
Replacement of section 81
20. In the FS Act, replace section 81 with  - 
"Dispensing of petroleum and flammable materials
81. A person must not dispense or cause to be dispensed any
5 class of petroleum or any flammable material unless either of the
following applies:
(a) the person dispenses or causes to be dispensed such
class of petroleum or flammable material  - 
(i) in or on licensed premises;
10 (ii) in accordance with the provisions of the storage
licence for the licensed premises and every
condition specified in that licence; and
(iii) in the case of the dispensing of any class of
petroleum or any flammable material into  - 
15 (A) any prescribed type of container;
(B) any road tanker; or
(C) the fuel tank of any vehicle,
(iii) where the regulations require a person so
dispensing that class of petroleum or
20 flammable material to have the
Commissioner's specific approval, with such
approval and in accordance with any conditions
that the Commissioner may impose;
(b) the person  - 
25 (i) is a class licensee authorised under a class
licence to store or keep, or cause to be stored or
kept, such class of petroleum or flammable
material in or on any applicable premises; and
(ii) dispenses or causes to be dispensed such class
30 of petroleum or flammable material in or on the
applicable premises in accordance with the
conditions of the class licence.".
32
New sections 84A, 84B and 84C
21. In the FS Act, after section 84, insert  - 
"Class licence
84A. - (1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette,
5determine a class licence that authorises a person to whom the
order applies to carry on a regulated activity without a licence
granted under this Part  - 
(a) for a specified period or indefinitely, or to an extent
specified in that order; and
10(b) subject to such conditions as may be specified in that
order.
(2) To avoid doubt, there may be more than one class licence
determined, according (but not limited) to any of the following:
(a) the purpose or purposes for which the regulated
15activity is carried on;
(b) the type, nature and quantity of the class of petroleum
or the flammable material involved in the regulated
activity;
(c) the premises where the class of petroleum or the
20flammable material is stored or kept;
(d) the manner and method in which the class of
petroleum or the flammable material is stored or kept;
(e) the maximum quantity of the class of petroleum or the
flammable material that may be stored or kept in or on
25the premises mentioned in paragraph (c);
(f) the dispensing of the class of petroleum or the
flammable material into  - 
(i) any type of container specified in the order
under subsection (1);
30(ii) any road tanker; or
(iii) the fuel tank of any vehicle,
(f) in or on the premises mentioned in paragraph (c).
33
(3) An order under subsection (1) continues in force, unless it
is revoked, for the period that may be specified in the order.
(4) The carrying on of a regulated activity by a class licensee is
deemed authorised by this Act if it is done in accordance with
5 the conditions of the class licence.
(5) In this section and section 84C, "regulated activity" means
the storage or keeping in or on any premises of any class of
petroleum or any flammable material.
Variation and revocation of class licence
10 84B. - (1) Subject to this section, the Minister may, by order
in the Gazette  - 
(a) vary a class licence by  - 
(i) varying or revoking any condition specified in
the class licence; or
15 (ii) specifying additional conditions of the class
licence; or
(b) revoke a class licence.
(2) Before varying a class licence or revoking a class licence,
the Minister must, unless the Minister considers it impractical or
20 undesirable in the circumstances of the case, cause to be
published, in accordance with subsection (3), a written notice
that  - 
(a) states that the Minister proposes to vary the class
licence or to revoke the class licence;
25 (b) describes the proposed variation or revocation; and
(c) invites interested persons to make representations
about the proposed variation or revocation by a
specified date that is at least one month after the date
of publication of the notice.
30 (3) A written notice under subsection (2) must be published on
the prescribed website or in one or more other forms that are
readily accessible by the public.
34
(4) The Minister must, before varying a class licence or
revoking a class licence, give due consideration to any
representations made to the Minister pursuant to the written
notice given in accordance with subsection (2).
5Conditions applicable to class licensee
84C. - (1) Without limiting section 84A(1) or 84B, the
conditions subject to which a class licensee may carry on a
regulated activity under a class licence may include conditions
requiring the class licensee  - 
10(a) to do or not to do any thing that is specified or is of a
description specified, except insofar as the
Commissioner consents to the class licensee doing
or not doing that thing;
(b) to refer for determination by the Commissioner such
15questions arising under the class licence or which are
of a description specified;
(c) to provide information and reports to the
Commissioner about the class licensee and the
regulated activity carried on; and
20(d) to notify the Commissioner that the class licensee has
ceased or will cease to be a class licensee.
(2) In particular, a class licence may provide that the class
licence applies to a person subject to a condition precedent that
requires the person  - 
25(a) to notify the Commissioner of the person's identity
and other particulars about the regulated activity
carried on by the person; and
(b) to pay a charge to the Commissioner when notifying
the Commissioner in accordance with
30paragraph (a).".
Amendment of section 85
22. In the FS Act, in section 85(2), delete "or 83".
35
Amendment of section 86
23. In the FS Act, in section 86  - 
(a) in subsection (1), delete paragraph (a); and
(b) after subsection (3), insert  - 
5 "(4) In addition, where the Commissioner enters
any place in exercise of the power under
subsection (1)(c), the Commissioner may do one or
more of the following in the place:
(a) take with him or her any assistance or
10 equipment;
(b) take photographs or video recordings of
and conduct any inspection, measurement
or test of the place or anything found in the
place;
15 (c) take, without payment, for the purpose of
examination and testing reasonable
samples of any substance found in the
place;
(d) do any other thing reasonably necessary for
20 carrying out the purpose to which his or her
exercise of that power relates.".
New section 86A
24. In the FS Act, after section 86, insert  - 
"Powers relating to vehicles transporting petroleum and
25 flammable materials
86A. - (1) For the purposes of this Part, the Commissioner
may do all or any of the following in relation to a vehicle which
the Commissioner reasonably believes is transporting any class
of petroleum or any flammable material:
30 (a) stop and detain the vehicle for as long as is reasonably
necessary for the exercise of any other power under
this section;
36
(b) inspect the vehicle and any equipment in or on the
vehicle;
(c) take photographs or video recordings of the vehicle
and anything in or on the vehicle;
5(d) inspect any document in the vehicle and take extracts
from, or make copies of, any such document;
(e) take, without payment, for the purpose of
examination and testing reasonable samples of any
substance found in or on the vehicle;
10(f) operate a computer or other thing in or on the vehicle;
(g) require the driver of the vehicle or any other person in
the vehicle, or any person who employed or engaged
the driver to drive the vehicle  - 
(i) to answer any question, to the best of that
15person's knowledge, information and belief;
(ii) to produce any licence or permit issued to that
person under this Part; and
(iii) to provide any document (other than a licence or
permit issued to that person under this Part) or
20any information that the Commissioner
reasonably requires for the purposes of this Part.
(2) The power to require any person to provide any document
or information under subsection (1)(g)(iii) includes the power  - 
(a) to require that person to provide an explanation of the
25document or information;
(b) if the document or information is not provided, to
require that person to state, to the best of that person's
knowledge and belief, where it is; and
(c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in
30legible form, to require the information to be made
available to the Commissioner in legible form.
37
(3) The Commissioner may require the driver (D) of a vehicle
which the Commissioner reasonably believes is transporting any
class of petroleum or any flammable material  - 
(a) to drive the vehicle to any place in Singapore (called
5 in this section the destination) that, in the
Commissioner's opinion, is suitable for the safe
unloading and disposal of the class of petroleum or
flammable material being transported in the vehicle;
and
10 (b) after D arrives at the destination, to provide the
Commissioner, as soon as is practicable, with any
photographs, video recordings or other documents
that the Commissioner may reasonably require in
respect of the unloading and disposal of the class of
15 petroleum or flammable material at the destination.
(4) The Commissioner may require any person (E) who
employed or engaged D to drive the vehicle to deploy or
engage another person (X) to take the actions mentioned in
subsection (3) instead of D.
20 (5) For the purposes of subsections (3)(a) and (4), the
Commissioner may specify the route or routes by which D or
X (as the case may be) may or may not drive the vehicle to the
destination.
(6) The Commissioner may, in addition to subsection (3)(a) or
25 (4), escort the vehicle to the destination.
(7) A person who  - 
(a) refuses or fails to comply with the Commissioner's
requirement under subsection (1)(g), (3) or (4);
(b) provides any document or information required under
30 subsection (1)(g) that is false in a material particular
and that the person knows to be false or does not
believe to be true; or
38
(c) drives a vehicle in contravention of the
Commissioner's specification under subsection (5),
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
5exceeding 6 months or to both.
(8) If  - 
(a) D or X refuses or fails to comply with the
Commissioner's requirement under subsection (3)
or drives a vehicle in contravention of the
10Commissioner's specification under subsection (5);
or
(b) E refuses or fails to comply with the Commissioner's
requirement under subsection (4),
the Commissioner may  - 
15(c) take any action that is reasonably necessary to ensure
that  - 
(i) the vehicle proceeds to the destination in a safe
manner; and
(ii) the class of petroleum or flammable material
20transported in the vehicle is unloaded and
disposed of at the destination in a safe
manner; and
(d) detain the vehicle for as long as is reasonably
necessary for the exercise of the power under
25paragraph (c).".
Amendment of section 87
25. In the FS Act, in section 87(1), after "any person", insert ", other
than a class licensee".
Amendment of section 88
3026. In the FS Act, in section 88  - 
(a) in subsection (4), replace "3 years" with "5 years"; and
39
(b) after subsection (6), insert  - 
"(7) In this section, "licence" does not include a
class licence.".
Amendment of section 89
5 27. In the FS Act, in section 89  - 
(a) in the section heading, after "permit", insert "and
disapplication of class licence";
(b) in subsection (1), after "the Commissioner may", insert
"(without compensation)";
10 (c) replace subsections (2) and (3) with  - 
"(2) In subsection (1), "licence" does not include a
class licence.
(3) If at any time it appears to the Commissioner
that  - 
15 (a) a class licensee has contravened any
condition of the applicable class licence;
(b) in a case where a class licence applies to a
person subject to a condition precedent that
requires the person to notify the
20 Commissioner of the person's identity
and other particulars about the regulated
activity (within the meaning given by
section 84A(5)) carried on by the person,
the person has provided any information
25 that is false or misleading; or
(c) the public safety so requires,
the Commissioner may (without compensation) by
order disapply the class licence with respect to that
class licensee.
30 (3A) The Commissioner must, before exercising
any power under subsection (1) or (3), give written
notice to the person concerned  - 
40
(a) stating the Commissioner's intention to
exercise such power; and
(b) specifying a date (being not less than
21 days from the date of service of notice
5on that person) upon which the cancellation
or disapplication takes effect and calling
upon the person concerned to show cause
to the Commissioner why the licence or
permit should not be cancelled or the class
10licence should not be disapplied, as the
case may be.
(3B) When the Commissioner has exercised any
power under subsection (1) or (3), the Commissioner
must inform the person concerned by written notice of
15the cancellation or disapplication as soon as may be
practicable.";
(d) in subsection (4), after "cancelled", insert ", or to whom a
class licence has been disapplied,";
(e) in subsection (4), after "cancellation", insert "or
20disapplication (as the case may be)"; and
(f) after subsection (5), insert  - 
"(6) An order under subsection (3) does not take
effect until the expiry of a period of 14 days after the
Commissioner has informed the class licensee in
25question of the order.".
Replacement of section 106
28. In the FS Act, replace section 106 with  - 
"Incorporation by reference of codes, standards, etc.
106. - (1) Regulations made under section 113 may apply,
30adopt or incorporate by reference  - 
(a) wholly or partially;
(b) with or without any addition, omission or
substitution; or
41
(c) specifically or by reference,
any code, standard, rule, specification or other document that
relates to any subject matter for which those regulations may be
made (called in this section the material), as in force or
5 published at a particular time or as in force or published from
time to time.
(2) The material mentioned in subsection (1) may be material
that  - 
(a) is issued by the Commissioner;
10 (b) is recommended, issued or adopted by the Enterprise
Singapore Board;
(c) is recommended, issued or adopted by any other
standards organisation or body of any place outside
Singapore, being an organisation or a body approved
15 by the Commissioner; or
(d) is included in any document issued by any
Government department or public authority.
(3) Any material applied, adopted or incorporated in the
regulations by reference under subsection (1) is to be treated for
20 all purposes as forming part of the regulations.
(4) Unless otherwise provided in the regulations, where the
material is applied, adopted or incorporated by reference as in
force or published from time to time, every amendment to the
material that is made by the Commissioner, the Enterprise
25 Singapore Board, the organisation or body or the Government
department or public authority (as the case may be) is to be
treated as being a part of those regulations.
(5) Where any material is applied, adopted or incorporated by
reference in any provision of any regulations, the Commissioner
30 must give notice in the Gazette stating  - 
(a) that the material is applied, adopted or incorporated in
the regulations by reference, and the date on which
the relevant provision in the regulations was made;
42
(b) that the material is available for inspection, free of
charge, and the place at which the material may be
inspected;
(c) that copies of the material can be purchased, and the
5place where the copies can be purchased; and
(d) if copies of the material are available in other ways,
the details of where or how the material can be
accessed or obtained.
(6) In addition, the Commissioner must cause a copy of every
10material applied, adopted or incorporated in the regulations by
reference under subsection (1) to be made available for
inspection by members of the public without charge at the
office of the Commissioner during normal office hours.
(7) In any proceedings under this Act, a copy certified by the
15Commissioner as a true copy of any material mentioned in
subsection (2)(c) or (d) that is applied, adopted or incorporated
in the regulations by reference under subsection (1) is evidence
of that material.
(8) Unless otherwise provided in any regulations made under
20section 113, in the event that any material applied, adopted or
incorporated in the regulations by reference under subsection (1)
is inconsistent with the Code of Practice for Fire Precautions in
Buildings published by the Commissioner, the Code of Practice
for Fire Precautions in Buildings prevails.
25(9) To avoid doubt, any part of the material that is not applied,
adopted or incorporated by reference under subsection (1) has
no legislative effect.".
Amendment of section 108
29. In the FS Act, in section 108, replace subsection (2) with  - 
30"(2) The power to require a person to provide any document,
record or information under subsection (1) includes the
power  - 
(a) to require that person to provide an explanation of the
document, record or information;
43
(b) if the document, record or information is not
provided, to require that person to state, to the best
of that person's knowledge and belief, where it is;
(c) to retain the original copy of the document or record,
5 or to copy or make extracts from the document or
record; and
(d) if the information is recorded otherwise than in
legible form, to require the information to be made
available to the Commissioner or authorised officer in
10 legible form.".
Replacement of section 109
30. In the FS Act, replace section 109 with  - 
"False or misleading information
109. - (1) Any person who provides, to the Commissioner or a
15 licensing officer in connection with any application for a licence
or permit under this Act, any information that the person knows
or has reason to believe is false or misleading, or is reckless or
negligent as to whether the information is false or misleading,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
20 fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to both.
(2) Any person to whom a class licence applies who, pursuant
to  - 
(a) a condition precedent of the class licence requiring
25 the person to notify the Commissioner of the person's
identity and other particulars about the regulated
activity carried on by the person, or provide any other
information to the Commissioner; or
44
(b) a condition of the class licence requiring the person to
provide information to the Commissioner for any
purpose or in relation to any matter relating to the
class licence,
5provides any information to the Commissioner, and  - 
(c) knows or has reason to believe that the information is
false or misleading; or
(d) is reckless or negligent as to whether the information
is false or misleading,
10shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to both.".
Amendment of section 113
31. In the FS Act, in section 113(1)  - 
15(a) replace paragraph (r) with  - 
"(r) the regulation of the storage of any class of
petroleum or any flammable material,
including  - 
(i) the quantities of any class of
20petroleum or any flammable
material that may be stored in or on
any licensed premises;
(ii) the maximum quantity of any class of
petroleum or any flammable material
25that may be stored without a licence
in or on any premises, other than any
applicable premises; and
(iii) the manner and method in which
such class of petroleum or flammable
30material is to be stored in or on any
premises, other than any applicable
premises;";
(b) replace paragraph (u) with  - 
45
"(u) the regulation of the transport of any class
of petroleum or any flammable material,
including  - 
(i) the time during which such class of
5 petroleum or flammable material
may be transported;
(ii) requirements relating to the route or
routes by which such class of
petroleum or flammable material
10 may be transported; and
(iii) the maximum quantity of any class of
petroleum or any flammable material
that may be transported without a
licence or permit;";
15 (c) in paragraphs (x) and (y), after "licensed premises", insert
"or applicable premises"; and
(d) replace paragraph (za) with  - 
"(za) the regulation of the import, storage,
transport, distribution, maintenance and
20 disposal of containers used to contain any
class of petroleum or any flammable
material, including  - 
(i) requirements to store different brands
or types of containers at different
25 licensed premises or applicable
premises; and
(ii) requirements for labelling and colour
coding of containers;".
46
Saving and transitional provisions for this Part
32. - (1) Where, immediately before the applicable date, a person
holds a licence granted under Part 6 of the FS Act in relation to the
carrying on of a regulated activity that is in force immediately before
5that date  - 
(a) the licence continues in force subject to subsection (2); and
(b) the FS Act as in force immediately before the applicable
date continues to apply in relation to that licence.
(2) The licence mentioned in subsection (1) continues in force until
10the earliest of the following:
(a) the date on which the person, pursuant to a condition
precedent of the applicable class licence as described in
section 84C(2) of the FS Act as inserted by section 21,
notifies the Commissioner of the person's identity and
15other particulars about the regulated activity carried on by
the person;
(b) the date the licence would have expired under Part 6 of the
FS Act as in force immediately before the applicable date;
(c) the date the licence is cancelled under section 89 of the
20FS Act.
(3) In this section  - 
"applicable date" means the date of commencement of
section 19;
"regulated activity" has the meaning given by section 84A(5) of
25the FS Act as inserted by section 21.
PART 3
REPEAL AND SA VING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISION
Repeal of Chemical Weapons (Prohibition) (Amendment)
Act 2019
3033. Repeal the Chemical Weapons (Prohibition) (Amendment)
Act 2019.
47
Saving and transitional provision
34. For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe any
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on
5 the enactment of that provision that the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.
EXPLANA TORY STA TEMENT
This Bill seeks to amend the Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997 and the Fire Safety
Act 1993. The Bill also repeals the Chemical Weapons (Prohibition)
(Amendment) Act 2019 because the subject of that Act (namely the regulation
of local transport of scheduled chemicals) has been or will be covered by
amendments to the Fire Safety Act 1993, and other legislation.
Clause 1 relates to the short title and commencement.
PART 1
AMENDMENT OF CIVIL DEFENCE SHELTER ACT 1997
Part 1 consists of clauses 2 to 5 and amends the Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997
for the main purpose of providing for the regulation of certain equipment
(regulated shelter products) that is installed or to be installed in a household shelter
or storey shelter.
Clause 2 amends section 2(1) to introduce a new definition of "regulated
shelter product".
Clause 3 introduces a new Part 2A (consisting of new sections 4A to 4M),
which relates to the regulation of regulated shelter products.
The new section 4A sets out the definitions of various terms used in the new
Part 2A. Notably  - 
(a) "applicable standard" means the standard for a regulated shelter
product that is specified in the specifications (as defined in
section 2(1)); and
(b) "certificate of conformity" means a certificate issued by an accredited
certification body as to compliance of a regulated shelter product of a
particular type or description with the applicable standard for that
regulated shelter product.
48
The new section 4B makes it an offence for an accredited laboratory to issue a
false test report in respect of a regulated shelter product of a particular type or
description.
The new section 4C makes it an offence for any person to give false
information to an accredited certification body for the purposes of obtaining a
certificate of conformity for a regulated shelter product of a particular type or
description.
The new section 4D makes it an offence for a person that is not an accredited
certification body, and knows that it is not such a body or is reckless or negligent
as to whether it is such a body, to certify, or hold out or advertise that the person is
willing to certify, that a regulated shelter product of a particular type or description
complies with the applicable standard for that product.
Under the new section 4D, it is also an offence if an accredited certification
body issues a certificate of conformity for a regulated shelter product of a
particular type or description that does not comply with the applicable standard for
that product.
Further, the new section 4D sets out the circumstances in which an accredited
certification body must cancel a certificate of conformity for a regulated shelter
product of a particular type or description issued by the accredited certification
body. An accredited certification body that fails to comply with this requirement
commits an offence.
The new section 4E makes it an offence for a person (whether or not in
Singapore)  - 
(a) to supply or offer to supply to a person in Singapore any non-compliant
shelter product as a compliant shelter product or for use as a regulated
shelter product; or
(b) to represent, in the course of such supply or offer, that a non-compliant
shelter product is a compliant shelter product or is fit for use as a
regulated shelter product.
The new section 4F applies to the following persons (relevant person):
(a) in relation to a household shelter provided for a house  -  the owner,
occupier or builder of the house;
(b) in relation to a household shelter provided for a flat in a building  -  the
owner or occupier of the flat or the builder of the building;
(c) in relation to a storey shelter provided for any storey of a building  - 
the owner or builder of the building, or the occupier of any part of that
storey of the building.
49
Under the new section 4F, a relevant person commits an offence if the relevant
person installs or causes to be installed in any household shelter or storey shelter
any non-compliant shelter product, knowing that it is a non-compliant shelter
product. However, the relevant person does not commit the offence if the
regulated shelter product is a non-compliant shelter product only by reason that
the certificate of conformity for that product expires or is suspended or terminated
after the product is delivered to the relevant person.
Further, it is a defence for a relevant person (X) charged with an offence for
installing or causing to be installed a non-compliant shelter product when X is
reckless or negligent as to whether it is a non-compliant shelter product, for X to
prove that X had taken all reasonable steps to ensure that the regulated shelter
product was a compliant shelter product at the time it was delivered to X.
The new section 4F also makes it an offence for a relevant person (X) to install
or cause to be installed in any household shelter or storey shelter any regulated
shelter product in a manner that impairs or is likely to impair the safe and efficient
use of the shelter. However, if X is charged with an offence for doing so when X is
reckless or negligent as to whether the manner of its installation has such effect, it
is a defence for X to prove that X had taken all reasonable steps to ensure that the
regulated shelter product was installed in accordance with the specifications.
The new section 4G empowers the Commissioner of Civil Defence (the
Commissioner) to require by written notice  - 
(a) an accredited certification body that has issued a certificate of
conformity for a regulated shelter product of a particular type or
description (P);
(b) a person carrying on a trade or business of supplying P (supplier); or
(c) a person to whom a certificate of conformity for P is issued (certificate
holder),
to submit P or samples of P to an accredited laboratory for the purpose of testing
or analysis within the time specified in the notice. Non-compliance with the
Commissioner's requirement is an offence.
Further, under the new section 4G, where the accredited certification body,
supplier or certificate holder does not have possession, charge or control of P, any
person who has possession, charge or control of the product must render all
necessary and reasonable assistance to enable the accredited certification body,
supplier or certificate holder (as the case may be) to comply with the notice.
Contravention of this requirement is an offence.
The new section 4H empowers the Commissioner to give one or more of the
following directions to any person with possession, charge or control of a
regulated shelter product or who supplied a regulated shelter product:
50
(a) recall a non-compliant shelter product;
(b) cease supplying the non-compliant shelter product;
(c) remove the regulated shelter product from the household shelter or
storey shelter in which it is installed;
(d) dispose of the non-compliant shelter product recalled under
paragraph (a) in any manner required by the Commissioner;
(e) rectify any contravention of the specifications for a regulated shelter
product in the installation of that product.
The Commissioner may give a direction under the new section 4H if the
Commissioner has reasonable grounds to believe that the direction is necessary for
public safety and the regulated shelter product in question is either a
non-compliant shelter product or was installed in a manner that impairs or is
likely to impair the safe and efficient use of any household shelter or storey shelter
in which the product is installed. Non-compliance with the Commissioner's
direction is an offence. A person aggrieved by the Commissioner's direction may
appeal to the Minister, but the direction takes effect despite an appeal being made.
Under the new section 4I, the Commissioner may, by written notice, direct an
accredited certification body that issued a certificate of conformity for a regulated
shelter product of a particular type or description (P) to cancel the certificate
within the time specified in the written notice, if  - 
(a) the accredited certification body contravenes the new section 4D(2) or
(3) in relation to that certificate; or
(b) the person to whom the certificate is issued refuses or fails to comply
with a requirement under the new section 4G(1) to submit P or a
sample of P for testing or analysis.
Also, the Commissioner may, by written notice, direct an accredited
certification body not to issue any certificate of conformity to a person for a
specified period if the Commissioner has reason to believe that the person has
contravened the new section 4E(1) or (3) in relation to the supply of a
non-compliant shelter product or any false representation made in the course of
such supply.
An accredited certification body that, without reasonable excuse, refuses or
fails to comply with the Commissioner's direction under the new section 4I
commits an offence. Further, the Minister may prescribe that the regulated shelter
product in question is a non-compliant shelter product. A person aggrieved by the
Commissioner's direction may appeal to the Minister, but the direction takes
effect despite an appeal being made.
51
The new section 4J provides that if a person to whom a direction under the new
section 4H(1) is given refuses or fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with
the direction, the Commissioner may  - 
(a) authorise any authorised person to carry out the direction; and
(b) recover the costs and expenses reasonably incurred in carrying out the
direction as a debt due to the Government from that person.
The new section 4J also sets out the authorised person's powers and obligations
in relation to the carrying out of the Commissioner's direction. Notably  - 
(a) the authorised person may, for the purpose of carrying out the
direction, enter any premises (as defined in the new section 4J(12)) at
any reasonable time after giving the owner or occupier of the premises
at least 24 hours' notice of the intention to do so; and
(b) a Magistrate may by warrant authorise the authorised person to enter
any premises, with such force as may be necessary, if the Magistrate is
satisfied that the authorised person needs to do so to carry out the
direction and that  - 
(i) entry into the premises has been refused, or such refusal is
likely; or
(ii) the premises are unoccupied or the owner or occupier is
temporarily absent.
The new section 4K provides that the Commissioner may  - 
(a) authorise any authorised person to enter any premises (as defined in
the new section 4J(12)) without warrant to carry out a direction given
under the new section 4H(1); and
(b) recover the costs and expenses reasonably incurred in carrying out the
direction as a debt due to the Government from the person to whom the
direction is issued,
if the person does not comply with the direction, and the Commissioner has
reasonable grounds to believe that a non-compliant shelter product installed in a
household shelter or storey shelter provided for those premises is posing an
imminent danger affecting public safety. The new section 4K also sets out the
powers and obligations of the authorised person in such a scenario.
The new section 4L pertains to appeals to the Minister against a direction given
by the Commissioner under the new Part 2A. Before determining an appeal, the
Minister may consult the Appeal Advisory Board appointed under the new
section 4M. In deciding an appeal, the Minister may have regard to any report
made by the Appeal Advisory Board. The Minister's decision on any appeal is
final.
52
The new section 4M provides for the constitution and appointment of the
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and members of the Appeal Advisory Board.
Clause 4 amends section 26(1) to increase the maximum sum for which a
compoundable offence may be compounded from $500 to $5,000.
Clause 5 amends section 28(1) to provide that the Minister's power to make
regulations includes the power to make regulations relating to various matters in
the new Part 2A.
PART 2
AMENDMENT OF FIRE SAFETY ACT 1993
Part 2 consists of clauses 6 to 32 and amends the Fire Safety Act 1993 (FS Act)
for the following main purposes:
(a) to enhance the Commissioner's powers to deal with  - 
(i) the obstruction of fire engine access roads, accessways and
other installations that are provided, used or designed to be
used to provide access to a building for the purpose of
extinguishing, attacking, preventing or limiting a fire in or at
the building; and
(ii) the obstruction of fire safety measures installed or fixed outside
any building (external fire safety measures) such as might
prevent or impede their timely and effective use;
(b) to provide for a class of regulated persons who do not require a licence
to carry on activities involving petroleum and flammable materials that
are currently licensable under Part 6. These persons may be
designated, individually or as a class, by the Minister, by an order in
the Gazette;
(c) to enhance the regulatory controls in relation to the transport of
petroleum and flammable materials by road to ensure public safety.
Clause 6 amends various definitions in section 2(1) in support of other
amendments to the FS Act, and includes a definition for "Enterprise Singapore
Board" because the term is used in the new section 106 introduced by clause 28 as
well as Part 5.
Clause 7 amends section 9(2) to provide that a member of the Registered
Inspectors Inquiry Panel constituted under section 9(1) is appointed for such term
as the Minister may determine, instead of a fixed term of 2 years.
Clause 8 introduces a new section 18(1A), which makes clear that the power of
the Commissioner or any member of the Singapore Civil Defence Force
53
authorised by the Commissioner to require any person (X) to provide any
information or produce any book or document includes the power  - 
(a) to require X to provide an explanation of the information, book or
document;
(b) if the information is not provided or the book or document is not
produced, to require X to state, to the best of X's knowledge and belief,
where it is; and
(c) if the information is not recorded in legible form, to require the
information to be made available in legible form.
Clause 8 also makes consequential amendments to the offence provision under
section 18(4).
Clause 9 amends section 21 to enable the Commissioner to empower an
individual appointed as a supplementary enforcement officer (SEO) to exercise
the powers conferred on the Commissioner under the new section 86A introduced
by clause 24. The new section 86A will apply to the SEO as if the SEO were the
Commissioner.
Clause 10 amends section 26. The new section 26(2A) makes it an offence for
an owner or occupier of any building to cause, or do any act (which, as defined by
section 2(1) of the Interpretation Act 1965, includes illegal omissions) which is
likely to cause  - 
(a) the obstruction of any access road, accessway or other installation that
is provided, used or designed to be used to provide access to the
building for the purpose of extinguishing, attacking, preventing or
limiting a fire in or at the building; or
(b) the obstruction of or any interference with the normal operation of any
fire safety measure in the building such as might prevent or impede its
timely and effective use.
The offence under the new section 26(2A) is a strict liability offence.
Clause 10 also amends section 26 to make it an offence for an owner or
occupier of any building to fail to take reasonable steps to remove any such
obstruction, bring any such interference to an end, or prevent any such obstruction
or interference from occurring.
Clause 10 further amends section 26(1) to omit the reference to an omission,
for consistency with the new section 26(2A).
The penalties for the new offences under the amended section 26 are the
general penalties specified in section 107.
Clause 11 inserts a new section 26A. The new section 26A makes it an offence
for an owner of an external fire safety measure (as defined in section 2(1) as
54
amended by clause 6(a)) to cause, or do any act (which includes illegal omissions)
which is likely to cause  - 
(a) the external fire safety measure not to be in proper working order; or
(b) the obstruction of or any interference with the normal operation of the
external fire safety measure such as might prevent or impede its timely
and effective use.
This offence is a strict liability offence.
Under the new section 26A, it is also an offence for the owner of an external
fire safety measure to fail to take reasonable steps to restore the external fire safety
measure to proper working order, remove any obstruction of or bring to an end any
interference with the normal operation of the external fire safety measure, or
prevent any such obstruction or interference from occurring.
The penalties for the offences under the new section 26A are the general
penalties specified in section 107.
Clause 12 replaces section 27. The new section 27 makes it an offence for any
person to do any act (which includes illegal omissions) which causes or is likely to
cause  - 
(a) the obstruction of any access road, accessway or other installation that
is provided, used or designed to be used to provide access to any
building for the purpose of extinguishing, attacking, preventing or
limiting a fire in or at the building;
(b) the obstruction of or any interference with the normal operation of any
fire safety measure in any building such as might prevent or impede its
timely and effective use; or
(c) the obstruction of or any interference with the normal operation of any
external fire safety measure as might prevent or impede the timely and
effective use of the external fire safety measure.
The penalties for the offences under the new section 27 are the general
penalties specified in section 107.
Clause 12 also re-enacts the offence under the deleted section 27 for any person
to cause, or do any act (which includes illegal omissions) which is likely to cause a
fire safety measure not to be in proper working order, or to cause an obstruction
that would render escape in the event of a fire more difficult. The penalties for this
offence will remain the general penalties specified in section 107.
Clause 13 amends section 45(3) to provide that a member of the Fire Safety
Engineers Inquiry Panel constituted under section 45(1) is appointed for such term
as the Minister may determine, instead of a fixed term of 2 years.
55
Clause 14 amends section 62(3) to specify the person on whom an order made
by the Commissioner under section 62(1) must be served where fire safety works
have been carried out in relation to a building or a relevant pipeline or part of a
relevant pipeline, and no fire safety certificate or temporary fire permit has been
granted in respect of the building or relevant pipeline or part of a relevant pipeline
under section 60.
Clause 15 deletes the definition of "Enterprise Singapore Board" in section 66.
The definition is re-enacted in section 2(1) as amended by clause 6(a).
Clause 16 amends section 73(6) to correct an editorial mistake.
Clause 17 amends section 74(5) such that the Commissioner must, before
making a direction under section 74(1)(a), give the person to whom the direction
applies written notice of the Commissioner's intention to make the direction, and
an opportunity to submit reasons why the direction should not be made. The clause
also amends section 74(7) to allow the Commissioner to cancel a direction made
under section 74(1) at any time.
Clause 18 amends section 77(1) to introduce definitions of "applicable
premises", "class licence" and "class licensee". These definitions are in support of
other amendments in Part 2 of the Bill. The clause also makes a consequential
amendment to the definition of "licensed premises".
Clause 19 replaces section 78. Under the new section 78, a person must not
store or keep, or cause to be stored or kept, any class of petroleum or any
flammable material unless  - 
(a) the person does so  - 
(i) in or on licensed premises;
(ii) under the authority of and in accordance with a storage licence
granted by the Commissioner and every condition specified in
the licence; and
(iii) in the quantities, in the manner and in accordance with the
requirements prescribed in relation to the class of petroleum or
flammable material concerned; or
(b) the person is a class licensee authorised under a class licence to do so.
Clause 20 replaces section 81. Under the new section 81, a person is prohibited
from dispensing or causing to be dispensed any class of petroleum or any
flammable material unless the person satisfies either of 2 conditions.
The first condition relates to a situation where the person dispenses or causes to
be dispensed such class of petroleum or flammable material in or on licensed
premises. The person must comply with the provisions of the storage licence for
that licensed premises, including the conditions specified in the licence. Further, if
56
any class of petroleum or any flammable material is dispensed into any prescribed
type of container, any road tanker or the fuel tank of any vehicle, and the
regulations require the person so dispensing that class of petroleum or flammable
material to obtain the Commissioner's approval, the person must also obtain the
Commissioner's approval and comply with any conditions that the Commissioner
may impose.
The second condition relates to where the person is a class licensee authorised
under a class licence to store or keep, or cause to be stored or kept, such class of
petroleum or flammable material in or on any applicable premises. The person
must dispense or cause to be dispensed such class of petroleum or flammable
material in or on the applicable premises in accordance with the conditions of the
class licence.
Clause 21 introduces new sections 84A, 84B and 84C. These provisions deal
with a class of regulated persons who may carry on a regulated activity (within the
meaning of the new section 84A(5)) without holding a licence issued under Part 6.
These persons may be designated, individually or as a class, by the Minister, by an
order in the Gazette (class licence order) under the new section 84A(1).
Under the new section 84A(4), the carrying on of a regulated activity by any
person to which a class licence order applies is deemed authorised by the FS Act if
it is done in accordance with the conditions of the order.
The new section 84B sets out the due process for varying or adding a class
licence condition or revoking a class licence.
The new section 84C provides for conditions applicable to a class licensee.
These conditions may include a requirement that the class licensee do or not do
any thing that is specified in the class licence. Also, the class licence may provide
that it applies to a person subject to a condition precedent requiring the person to
notify the Commissioner of the person's identity and other particulars about the
regulated activity carried on by the person, and to pay a charge to the
Commissioner when so notifying him or her.
Clause 22 amends section 85(2) such that contravention of section 83 will no
longer be an offence under that provision. Section 83(6) already provides that a
contravention of section 83(1), (2), (3) or (5) is an offence. The penalties for an
offence under section 83(6) are the general penalties specified in section 107, the
same as for an offence under section 85(2).
Clause 23 introduces a new section 86(4) to elaborate on the Commissioner's
powers when the Commissioner enters any place where the Commissioner has
reason to believe that any class of petroleum or flammable material is stored in
contravention of the FS Act.
Clause 23 also deletes section 86(1)(a). The power in that provision is covered
by the new section 86A(1), which empowers the Commissioner to stop and inspect
57
any vehicle which the Commissioner reasonably believes is transporting any class
of petroleum or any flammable material.
Clause 24 introduces a new section 86A. The new section 86A(1) and (2) sets
out the Commissioner's powers in relation to any vehicle which the Commissioner
reasonably believes is transporting any class of petroleum or any flammable
material.
Notably, under the new section 86A(1)(g), the Commissioner may require the
driver of the vehicle or any other person in the vehicle, or any person who
employed or engaged the driver to drive the vehicle  - 
(a) to answer any question, to the best of that person's knowledge,
information and belief;
(b) to produce any licence or permit issued to that person under Part 6; and
(c) to provide any document (other than a licence or permitted issued to
that person under Part 6) or any information that the Commissioner
reasonably requires for the purposes of Part 6.
Under the new section 86A(2), the Commissioner's power to require any
person to whom the new section 86A(1)(g) applies to provide any document or
information includes the power  - 
(a) to require that person to provide an explanation of the document or
information;
(b) if the document or information is not provided, to require that person to
state, to the best of that person's knowledge and belief, where it is; and
(c) if the information is not recorded in legible form, to require the
information to be made available in legible form.
Under the new section 86A(3), the Commissioner may require the driver (D) of
a vehicle transporting any class of petroleum or any flammable material  - 
(a) to drive the vehicle to any place in Singapore (destination) that, in the
Commissioner's opinion, is suitable for the safe unloading and
disposal of the class of petroleum or flammable material being
transported in the vehicle; and
(b) after arriving at the destination, to provide the Commissioner with any
photographs, video recordings or other documents that the
Commissioner may reasonably require in respect of the unloading
and disposal of the class of petroleum or flammable material at the
destination.
Alternatively, the Commissioner may, under the new section 86A(4), require
any person who employed or engaged D to drive the vehicle to deploy or engage
58
another person (X) to take the actions mentioned in the new section 86A(3) instead
of D.
Under the new section 86A(5), the Commissioner may specify the route or
routes by which D or X may or may not drive the vehicle to the destination.
Additionally, under the new section 86A(6), the Commissioner may escort the
vehicle to the destination.
Non-compliance with the Commissioner's requirement under the new
section 86A(1)(g), (3) or (4) is an offence under the new section 86A(7). A
person who provides any document or information required under the new
section 86A(1)(g) that is false in a material particular and that the person knows to
be false or does not believe to be true commits an offence under the new
section 86A(7). It is also an offence under the new section 86A(7) if a person
drives a vehicle in contravention of the Commissioner's specification under the
new section 86A(5). A person who obstructs, hinders or impedes the
Commissioner in the exercise of the Commissioner's powers under the new
section 86A(1)(a) to (f) commits an offence under section 94.
Further, in the event of any non-compliance with the Commissioner's
requirement under the new section 86A(3) or (4) or any contravention of the
Commissioner's specification under the new section 86A(5), the Commissioner
may, under the new section 86A(8)  - 
(a) take any action that is reasonably necessary to ensure that the vehicle
proceeds to the destination in a safe manner, and the class of petroleum
or flammable material transported in the vehicle is unloaded and
disposed of at the destination in a safe manner; and
(b) detain the vehicle for as long as is reasonably necessary for the
Commissioner to do so.
Clause 25 amends section 87(1) (which concerns the waiver or modification of
a licence or permit requirement) to disapply that provision to and in relation to a
class licence. Any changes to the conditions of a class licence are subject to the
procedure in the new section 84B.
Clause 26 amends section 88  - 
(a) to increase the maximum duration of any licence or permit granted
under Part 6 from 3 years to 5 years; and
(b) to disapply the power under section 88 to grant or renew a licence or
permit to a class licence.
Clause 27 amends section 89 to empower the Commissioner to disapply a class
licence to a class licensee in the circumstances specified in the new section 89(3).
The clause also amends section 89 to introduce procedural protections for the class
59
licensee in relation to such a disapplication similar to those that apply to a person
whose licence or permit granted under Part 6 is cancelled by the Commissioner.
Clause 28 replaces section 106 to provide for the incorporation by reference of
codes, standards, rules, specifications and other documents relating to any subject
matter of any regulations made under section 113, whether that material is in force
or published at a particular time or from time to time.
Clause 29 replaces section 108(2) to provide that the power of the
Commissioner or any authorised officer under section 108(1) to require any
person to provide any document, record or information includes the power  - 
(a) to require that person to provide an explanation of the document,
record or information;
(b) if the document, record or information is not provided, to require that
person to state, to the best of that person's knowledge and belief, where
it is; and
(c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible form, to require
the information to be made available in legible form.
These powers are in addition to the power to retain the original copy of any
document or record provided under section 108(1) or to copy or make extracts
from the document or record.
Clause 30 replaces section 109. The new section 109 provides for the following
additional matters:
(a) the new section 109(1) makes it an offence for a person to provide any
information to the Commissioner or a licensing officer, in connection
with any application for a licence or permit under the FS Act, where
the person is reckless or negligent as to whether the information is false
or misleading;
(b) the new section 109(2) makes it an offence for a person to whom a
class licence applies to provide, pursuant to a condition of the class
licence, any information that the person knows or has reason to believe
is false or misleading, or is reckless or negligent as to whether the
information is false or misleading.
Clause 31 amends section 113(1) (which concerns the matters for which the
Minister may make regulations) in support of other amendments to the FS Act. In
particular, the amended section 113(1)(u) makes it clear that regulations made in
respect of the transport of any class of petroleum or any flammable material may
include requirements relating to the route or routes by which the class of
petroleum or flammable material may be transported.
Clause 32 provides for saving and transitional provisions that apply where a
person holds a licence granted under Part 6 before the commencement of clause 19
60
for the carrying on of a regulated activity (within the meaning of the new
section 84A(5) introduced by clause 21).
PART 3
REPEAL AND SA VING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISION
Clause 33 repeals the Chemical Weapons (Prohibition) (Amendment) Act 2019
(CWPAA). The CWPAA, which amends the Chemical Weapons (Prohibition)
Act 2000, is no longer required, as the policy intent to regulate the transport within
Singapore by road of certain scheduled chemicals has been or will be met by
amendments under Part 2 of the Bill (in particular the new section 86A introduced
by clause 24), as well as amendments to subsidiary legislation made under the FS
Act, and the Environmental Protection and Management Act 1999 and its
subsidiary legislation.
Clause 34 contains a power to make additional saving and transitional
provisions by regulations.
EXPENDITURE OF PUBLIC MONEY
This Bill will not involve the Government in any extra financial expenditure.
61