Health Sciences Authority (Amendment)
and Other Matters Bill
Bill No. 17/2026.
Read the first time on 4 August 2026.
A BILL
intituled
An Act to amend the Health Sciences Authority Act 2001, the
Biological Agents and Toxins Act 2005, the Human Biomedical
Research Act 2015 and the Healthcare Services Act 2020, and to
make related and miscellaneous amendments to certain other Acts.
Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the
Parliament of Singapore, as follows:
Short title and commencement
1. This Act is the Health Sciences Authority (Amendment) and
Other Matters Act 2026 and comes into operation on a date that the
Minister appoints by notification in the Gazette.
5 PART 1
AMENDMENT OF
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY ACT 2001
Amendment of section 2
2. In the Health Sciences Authority Act 2001 (called in this Part the
10 HSA Act), in section 2, after the definition of "Chief Executive",
insert  - 
" "healthcare profession regulatory Act" means any of the
following Acts:
(a) the Allied Health Professions Act 2011;
15 (b) the Dental Registration Act 1999;
(c) the Medical Registration Act 1997;
(d) the Nurses and Midwives Act 1999;
(e) the Optometrists and Opticians Act 2007;
(f) the Pharmacists Registration Act 2007;
20 (g) the Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners
Act 2000;".
Amendment of section 5
3. In the HSA Act, in section 5, replace subsection (1) with  - 
"(1) The Authority consists of at least 7 members, all of whom
25 must be appointed by the Minister.".
New section 5A
4. In the HSA Act, after section 5, insert  - 
2
"Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson
5A. - (1) The Minister may, by instrument in writing,
appoint  - 
(a) a member (other than the Chief Executive) to be the
5Chairperson of the Authority; and
(b) one or more members (other than the Chairperson) to
be a Deputy Chairperson or Deputy Chairpersons of
the Authority.
(2) The Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson holds office
10until whichever of the following first happens:
(a) his or her term of office as Chairperson or
Deputy Chairperson (as the case may be) expires;
(b) he or she ceases to hold office as a member of the
Authority;
15(c) the Minister revokes his or her appointment as
Chairperson or Deputy Chairperson, as the case
may be.
(3) A Deputy Chairperson may, subject to any direction given
by the Chairperson, exercise any power or perform any function
20conferred on the Chairperson by or under this Act.".
Amendment of section 9
5. In the HSA Act, in section 9, replace subsection (1) with  - 
"(1) The quorum for a meeting of the Authority is the higher of
the following:
25(a) one-third of the number of members;
(b) 3 members.
(1A) No business may be transacted at a meeting of the
Authority if a quorum is not present.".
3
Amendment of section 11
6. In the HSA Act, in section 11  - 
(a) in subsection (1), after paragraph (a), insert  - 
"(aa) to regulate the conduct of human
5 biomedical research and human tissue
activities;
(ab) to regulate the possession, use, import,
transhipment, transfer and transportation of
biological agents, inactivated biological
10 agents and toxins;
(ac) to assist the Minister or Director-General
of Health (as the case may be) in relation to
the administration or enforcement of the
Acts specified in the First Schedule;";
15 (b) in subsection (1)(f), delete "and" at the end;
(c) in subsection (1), after paragraph (f), insert  - 
"(fa) to provide administrative services to any
body (whether corporate or unincorporate)
responsible for the regulation of persons
20 under a healthcare profession regulatory
Act; and"; and
(d) after subsection (2), insert  - 
"(2A) In addition to the functions conferred by this
section, the Authority may undertake such other
25 functions as the Minister may assign to the Authority,
by notification in the Gazette, and in so
undertaking  - 
(a) the Authority is deemed to be fulfilling the
purposes of this Act; and
30 (b) the provisions of this Act apply to the
Authority in respect of those other
functions.".
4
Amendment of section 12
7. In the HSA Act, in section 12  - 
(a) in paragraph (f), after "commissions for", insert "goods
provided,";
5(b) in paragraph (f), replace "by" with "or work performed by
or on behalf of";
(c) in paragraph (f), replace "its" with "the Authority's"; and
(d) after paragraph (f), insert  - 
"(fa) waive the payment of fees and charges
10payable to the Authority;".
Amendment of Part 6 heading
8. In the HSA Act, in Part 6, in the Part heading, after
"EMPLOYEES", insert "ON 1 APRIL 2001".
New Part 6A
159. In the HSA Act, after Part 6, insert  - 
"PART 6A
TRANSFER OF PROPERTY , ASSETS, LIABILITIES
AND EMPLOYEES IN RELA TION TO
TRANSFERRING MOH FUNCTIONS
20Interpretation of this Part
36A. In this Part  - 
"agreement" includes an arrangement or undertaking;
"asset", in relation to the transferor, means property of any
kind (whether tangible or intangible, whether arising
25from, accruing under, created or evidenced by or the
subject of an instrument or otherwise, and whether
actual or contingent) of the transferor on the eve of the
first transfer date and includes, without limitation,
any  - 
5
(a) legal or equitable interest in real or personal
property, whether situated in or outside
Singapore;
(b) chose in action;
5 (c) money or securities;
(d) plant and equipment, whether situated in or
outside Singapore;
(e) intellectual property;
(f) infrastructure, whether situated in or outside
10 Singapore;
(g) records and information (including data) in any
form; and
(h) right;
"first transfer date" means the date of commencement of
15 section 9 of the Health Sciences Authority
(Amendment) and Other Matters Act 2026;
"liability", in relation to the transferor, means any liability,
duty or obligation (whether actual or contingent,
liquidated or unliquidated, and whether owed alone or
20 jointly, or jointly and severally, with any other person)
of the transferor on the eve of the first transfer date;
"records", in relation to the transferor, means registers,
papers, documents, minutes, receipts, books of account
and other records, however compiled, recorded or
25 stored, of the transferor existing on the eve of the first
transfer date;
"right", in relation to the transferor, means any right,
power, privilege or immunity of the transferor on the eve
of the first transfer date;
30 "transferor" means the Government;
"transferring MOH employee" means an employee of the
Government who, on the eve of the first transfer date, is
6
in any of the departments of the Ministry of Health as
specified in the Third Schedule;
"transferring MOH functions" means the functions
discharged by any of the departments of the Ministry
5of Health as specified in the Third Schedule on the eve
of the first transfer date.
Transfer of undertakings to Authority
36B. - (1) On the first transfer date, all assets and liabilities of
the Government that relate solely to the transferring MOH
10functions are transferred to the Authority.
(2) A certificate signed by the Minister certifying whether an
asset or a liability specified in the certificate has been transferred
to the Authority under subsection (1) is admissible in evidence
in any proceedings as proof of the matters stated in the
15certificate.
(3) When any asset or liability of the transferor is transferred
to the Authority under subsection (1), the following provisions
have effect:
(a) the asset vests in the Authority without the need for
20any further conveyance, transfer, assignment or
assurance;
(b) the liability becomes the liability of the Authority;
(c) all legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
liability that are pending immediately before the first
25transfer date by or against the transferor (or a
predecessor of the transferor) are taken to be
proceedings pending by or against the Authority;
(d) any legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
liability which could have been started immediately
30before the first transfer date by or against the
transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) may
be started by or against the Authority;
(e) a judgment or an order of a court or other tribunal
obtained before the first transfer date by or against the
7
transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) relating
to that asset or liability becomes enforceable by or
against the Authority;
(f) any document in any legal or other proceedings
5 relating to that asset or liability that has been served
on or by the transferor (or a predecessor of the
transferor) before the first transfer date is taken,
where appropriate, to have been served on or by the
Authority;
10 (g) any act, matter or thing done or omitted to be done
before the first transfer date in relation to that asset or
liability by, to or in respect of the transferor (or a
predecessor of the transferor) is (to the extent to
which that act, matter or thing has any force or effect)
15 taken to have been done or omitted to be done by, to or
in respect of the Authority;
(h) a reference to the transferor (or a predecessor of the
transferor) in any Act, any instrument made under any
Act, any agreement or any document of any kind is
20 taken to be or includes (to the extent to which the
reference relates to that asset or liability) a reference
to the Authority;
(i) any agreement relating to that asset or liability and to
which the transferor (or a predecessor of the
25 transferor) is a party becomes enforceable by or
against the Authority.
(4) The operation of this section does not  - 
(a) constitute a breach of, or default under, any Act or
other law, or any agreement, or otherwise a civil
30 wrong or criminal wrong;
(b) constitute a breach of any duty of confidence
(whether arising by contract, in equity, by custom,
or in any other way);
(c) constitute a breach of any contractual provision
35 prohibiting, restricting or regulating the assignment
8
or transfer of assets or liabilities or the disclosure of
any information;
(d) terminate an agreement or obligation, or fulfil any
condition that allows a person to terminate or
5otherwise releases a person from any agreement or
obligation, or give rise to any right or remedy in
respect of any agreement or obligation;
(e) cause any contract or other instrument to be void or
otherwise unenforceable;
10(f) frustrate any contract;
(g) release a surety or other obligor or obligee wholly or
in part from an obligation; or
(h) constitute an event of breach of, or default under, any
contract or other instrument.
15(5) No attornment to the Authority by a lessee of the transferor
is required.
Transfer of employees and secondees to Authority
36C. - (1) On the first transfer date, every transferring
MOH employee  - 
20(a) stops being an employee of the Government; and
(b) is each transferred to the service, and becomes an
employee, of the Authority on terms no less
favourable than those enjoyed by the employee on
the eve of the first transfer date.
25(2) A certificate signed by the Minister certifying whether an
individual named in the certificate has been transferred to the
service of the Authority under subsection (1) is admissible in
evidence in any proceedings as proof of the matters stated in the
certificate.
30(3) The transfer under subsection (1) of a transferring
MOH employee to the service of the Authority  - 
9
(a) does not interrupt continuity of that
employee's service;
(b) does not constitute a retrenchment or redundancy of
that employee's employment by the Government; and
5 (c) does not entitle that employee to any compensation or
other payment or benefit merely because he or she
stops being employed by the Government.
(4) Nothing in this section prevents  - 
(a) any of the terms and conditions of employment of an
10 individual transferred to the service of the Authority
under subsection (1) from being altered by or under
any law, award or agreement with effect from any
time after the first transfer date; and
(b) an individual transferred to the service of the
15 Authority under subsection (1) from resigning from
that service any time after the first transfer date, in
accordance with the terms and conditions of his or her
employment then applicable.
(5) To avoid doubt, section 18A of the Employment Act 1968
20 does not apply to the transfer under this Part of any transferring
MOH employee to the service of the Authority.
(6) On the first transfer date, every public officer seconded to
any of the departments of the Ministry of Health as specified in
the Third Schedule under an arrangement made by the
25 Government that is in force on the eve of the first transfer
date, continues on secondment to the Authority.
(7) On the first transfer date, every employee of a public body
seconded to any of the departments of the Ministry of Health as
specified in the Third Schedule under an agreement or
30 arrangement between the transferor and that public body that
is in force on the eve of the first transfer date, continues on
secondment to the Authority.
10
General preservation of employment terms, etc.
36D. - (1) When a transferring MOH employee is transferred
to the service of the Authority under section 36C(1) (called in
this section a transferred employee), the transferred
5employee's service with the Authority must be regarded for
all purposes as having been continuous with his or her service
with the transferor immediately before the first transfer date.
(2) On the first transfer date  - 
(a) a transferred employee retains all accrued rights as if
10his or her employment with the Authority were a
continuation of employment with the transferor;
(b) the liabilities of the transferor relating to the
transferred employee's accrued rights to annual,
sick, maternity or other leave and superannuation
15become the liabilities of the Authority; and
(c) a reference to the transferor in the contract of
employment that had effect in relation to the
transferred employee immediately before the first
transfer date is taken to be, or includes, a reference to
20the Authority.
(3) Until the time the Authority draws up the terms and
conditions of employment for the transferred employee, the
Authority is to be regarded as employing the transferred
employee on the same terms and conditions of his or her
25employment with the transferor on the eve of the first transfer
date.
(4) Any term or condition of employment drawn up by the
Authority relating to the length of service of the transferred
employee with the Authority must recognise the length of
30service of that employee with the transferor (including any
previous service of that employee taken to be service with the
transferor) to be service with the Authority.
(5) For any conduct of the transferred employee when he or
she was employed by the transferor which would have rendered
11
that employee liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired,
dismissed or punished by the transferor, the Authority may  - 
(a) start any disciplinary proceedings against that
employee;
5 (b) carry on and complete any disciplinary proceedings
started by the transferor against that employee if those
proceedings are pending on the eve of the first transfer
date; and
(c) reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or otherwise
10 punish that employee as if that employee were not
transferred.
(6) Where, on the eve of the first transfer date, any matter
about the conduct of the transferred employee during his or her
employment with the transferor concerned  - 
15 (a) was in the course of being heard or investigated by a
committee of the transferor acting under due
authority; or
(b) had been heard or investigated, but no order, ruling or
direction had been made, by that committee,
20 that committee must complete the hearing or investigation and
make such order, ruling or direction as it could have made under
the authority vested in it before that date, and that order, ruling or
direction is to be regarded as an order, ruling or direction of the
Authority.
25 Transfer of records
36E. On the first transfer date, every record, or part of any
record, of the transferor that relates to the following becomes the
record of the Authority:
(a) any asset or liability transferred to the Authority
30 under section 36B(1);
(b) any transferring MOH employee.".
12
New Part 6B
10. In the HSA Act, before Part 7, insert  - 
"PART 6B
TRANSFER OF PROPERTY , ASSETS, LIABILITIES
5AND EMPLOYEES IN RELA TION TO
TRANSFERRING ADMINISTRA TIVE
SERVICES FUNCTION
Interpretation of this Part
36F. In this Part  - 
10"agreement" includes an arrangement or undertaking;
"asset", in relation to the transferor, means property of any
kind (whether tangible or intangible, whether arising
from, accruing under, created or evidenced by or the
subject of an instrument or otherwise, and whether
15actual or contingent) of the transferor on the eve of the
second transfer date and includes, without limitation,
any  - 
(a) legal or equitable interest in real or personal
property, whether situated in or outside
20Singapore;
(b) chose in action;
(c) money or securities;
(d) plant and equipment, whether situated in or
outside Singapore;
25(e) intellectual property;
(f) infrastructure, whether situated in or outside
Singapore;
(g) records and information (including data) in any
form; and
30(h) right;
"liability", in relation to the transferor, means any liability,
duty or obligation (whether actual or contingent,
13
liquidated or unliquidated, and whether owed alone or
jointly, or jointly and severally, with any other person)
of the transferor on the eve of the second transfer date;
"records", in relation to the transferor, means registers,
5 papers, documents, minutes, receipts, books of account
and other records, however compiled, recorded or
stored, of the transferor existing on the eve of the
second transfer date;
"right", in relation to the transferor, means any right,
10 power, privilege or immunity of the transferor on the eve
of the second transfer date;
"second transfer date" means the date of commencement of
section 10 of the Health Sciences Authority
(Amendment) and Other Matters Act 2026;
15 "transferor" means  - 
(a) in relation to any asset, liability, employee or
department of the Government  -  the
Government; and
(b) in relation to any asset, liability, employee or
20 department of the Singapore Medical
Council  -  the Singapore Medical Council
mentioned in section 3 of the Medical
Registration Act 1997;
"transferring employee" means an employee of the
25 Government or the Singapore Medical Council who,
on the eve of the second transfer date, is in any of the
departments of the Ministry of Health or the Singapore
Medical Council (as the case may be) as specified in the
Fourth Schedule;
30 "transferring functions" means  - 
(a) the function of providing administrative
services to any body (whether corporate or
unincorporate) responsible for the regulation of
persons under a healthcare profession regulatory
14
Act, discharged by the department of the
Singapore Medical Council as specified in the
Fourth Schedule on the eve of the second
transfer date; and
5(b) any ancillary administrative support services
provided by any of the departments of the
Ministry of Health as specified in the
Fourth Schedule on the eve of the second
transfer date to the department of the
10Singapore Medical Council specified in the
Fourth Schedule.
Transfer of undertakings to Authority
36G. - (1) On the second transfer date, all assets and liabilities
of the Government and the Singapore Medical Council that
15relate solely to the transferring functions are transferred to the
Authority.
(2) A certificate signed by the Minister certifying whether an
asset or a liability specified in the certificate has been transferred
to the Authority under subsection (1) is admissible in evidence
20in any proceedings as proof of the matters stated in the
certificate.
(3) When any asset or liability of the transferor is transferred
to the Authority under subsection (1), the following provisions
have effect:
25(a) the asset vests in the Authority without the need for
any further conveyance, transfer, assignment or
assurance;
(b) the liability becomes the liability of the Authority;
(c) all legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
30liability that are pending immediately before the
second transfer date by or against the transferor (or a
predecessor of the transferor) are taken to be
proceedings pending by or against the Authority;
15
(d) any legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
liability which could have been started immediately
before the second transfer date by or against the
transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor) may be
5 started by or against the Authority;
(e) a judgment or an order of a court or other tribunal
obtained before the second transfer date by or against
the transferor (or a predecessor of the transferor)
relating to that asset or liability becomes enforceable
10 by or against the Authority;
(f) any document in any legal or other proceedings
relating to that asset or liability that has been served
on or by the transferor (or a predecessor of the
transferor) before the second transfer date is taken,
15 where appropriate, to have been served on or by the
Authority;
(g) any act, matter or thing done or omitted to be done
before the second transfer date in relation to that asset
or liability by, to or in respect of the transferor (or a
20 predecessor of the transferor) is (to the extent to
which that act, matter or thing has any force or effect)
taken to have been done or omitted to be done by, to or
in respect of the Authority;
(h) a reference to the transferor (or a predecessor of the
25 transferor) in any Act, any instrument made under any
Act, any agreement or any document of any kind is
taken to be or includes (to the extent to which the
reference relates to that asset or liability) a reference
to the Authority;
30 (i) any agreement relating to that asset or liability and to
which the transferor (or a predecessor of the
transferor) is a party becomes enforceable by or
against the Authority.
16
(4) The operation of this section does not  - 
(a) constitute a breach of, or default under, any Act or
other law, or any agreement, or otherwise a civil
wrong or criminal wrong;
5(b) constitute a breach of any duty of confidence
(whether arising by contract, in equity, by custom,
or in any other way);
(c) constitute a breach of any contractual provision
prohibiting, restricting or regulating the assignment
10or transfer of assets or liabilities or the disclosure of
any information;
(d) terminate an agreement or obligation, or fulfil any
condition that allows a person to terminate or
otherwise releases a person from any agreement or
15obligation, or give rise to any right or remedy in
respect of any agreement or obligation;
(e) cause any contract or other instrument to be void or
otherwise unenforceable;
(f) frustrate any contract;
20(g) release a surety or other obligor or obligee wholly or
in part from an obligation; or
(h) constitute an event of breach of, or default under, any
contract or other instrument.
(5) No attornment to the Authority by a lessee of the transferor
25is required.
Transfer of employees and secondees to Authority
36H. - (1) On the second transfer date, every transferring
employee  - 
(a) stops being an employee of the Government or the
30Singapore Medical Council, as the case may be; and
(b) is each transferred to the service, and becomes an
employee, of the Authority on terms no less
17
favourable than those enjoyed by the employee on the
eve of the second transfer date.
(2) A certificate signed by the Minister certifying whether an
individual named in the certificate has been transferred to the
5 service of the Authority under subsection (1) is admissible in
evidence in any proceedings as proof of the matters stated in the
certificate.
(3) The transfer under subsection (1) of a transferring
employee to the service of the Authority  - 
10 (a) does not interrupt continuity of that
employee's service;
(b) does not constitute a retrenchment or redundancy of
that employee's employment by the Government or
the Singapore Medical Council, as the case may be;
15 and
(c) does not entitle that employee to any compensation or
other payment or benefit merely because he or she
stops being employed by the Government or the
Singapore Medical Council, as the case may be.
20 (4) Nothing in this section prevents  - 
(a) any of the terms and conditions of employment of an
individual transferred to the service of the Authority
under subsection (1) from being altered by or under
any law, award or agreement with effect from any
25 time after the second transfer date; and
(b) an individual transferred to the service of the
Authority under subsection (1) from resigning from
that service any time after the second transfer date, in
accordance with the terms and conditions of his or her
30 employment then applicable.
(5) To avoid doubt, section 18A of the Employment Act 1968
does not apply to the transfer under this Part of any transferring
employee to the service of the Authority.
18
(6) On the second transfer date, every public officer seconded
to any of the departments of the Ministry of Health as specified
in the Fourth Schedule under an arrangement made by the
Government that is in force on the eve of the second transfer
5date, continues on secondment to the Authority.
(7) On the second transfer date, every public officer seconded
to the department of the Singapore Medical Council as specified
in the Fourth Schedule under an agreement or arrangement
between the Government and the Singapore Medical Council
10that is in force on the eve of the second transfer date, continues
on secondment to the Authority.
(8) On the second transfer date, every employee of a public
body seconded to any of the departments of the transferor as
specified in the Fourth Schedule under an agreement or
15arrangement between the transferor and that public body that
is in force on the eve of the second transfer date, continues on
secondment to the Authority.
General preservation of employment terms, etc.
36I. - (1) When a transferring employee is transferred to the
20service of the Authority under section 36H(1) (called in this
section a transferred employee), the transferred
employee's service with the Authority must be regarded for
all purposes as having been continuous with his or her service
with the transferor immediately before the second transfer date.
25(2) On the second transfer date  - 
(a) a transferred employee retains all accrued rights as if
his or her employment with the Authority were a
continuation of employment with the transferor;
(b) the liabilities of the transferor relating to the
30transferred employee's accrued rights to annual,
sick, maternity or other leave and superannuation
become the liabilities of the Authority; and
(c) a reference to the transferor in the contract of
employment that had effect in relation to the
19
transferred employee immediately before the
second transfer date is taken to be, or includes, a
reference to the Authority.
(3) Until the time the Authority draws up the terms and
5 conditions of employment for the transferred employee, the
Authority is to be regarded as employing the transferred
employee on the same terms and conditions of his or her
employment with the transferor on the eve of the second transfer
date.
10 (4) Any term or condition of employment drawn up by the
Authority relating to the length of service of the transferred
employee with the Authority must recognise the length of
service of that employee with the transferor (including any
previous service of that employee taken to be service with the
15 transferor) to be service with the Authority.
(5) For any conduct of the transferred employee when he or
she was employed by the transferor which would have rendered
that employee liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired,
dismissed or punished by the transferor, the Authority may  - 
20 (a) start any disciplinary proceedings against that
employee;
(b) carry on and complete any disciplinary proceedings
started by the transferor against that employee if those
proceedings are pending on the eve of the second
25 transfer date; and
(c) reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or otherwise
punish that employee as if that employee were not
transferred.
(6) Where, on the eve of the second transfer date, any matter
30 about the conduct of the transferred employee during his or her
employment with the transferor concerned  - 
(a) was in the course of being heard or investigated by a
committee of the transferor acting under due
authority; or
20
(b) had been heard or investigated, but no order, ruling or
direction had been made, by that committee,
that committee must complete the hearing or investigation and
make such order, ruling or direction as it could have made under
5the authority vested in it before that date, and that order, ruling or
direction is to be regarded as an order, ruling or direction of the
Authority.
Transfer of records
36J. On the second transfer date, every record, or part of any
10record, of the transferor that relates to the following becomes the
record of the Authority:
(a) any asset or liability transferred to the Authority
under section 36G(1);
(b) any transferring employee.".
15New section 40A
11. In the HSA Act, after section 40, insert  - 
"Amendment of First Schedule
40A. - (1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend
the First Schedule.
20(2) The Minister may, in an order under subsection (1), make
provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of the order that the Minister may consider necessary
or expedient.".
Amendment of section 42
2512. - (1) In the HSA Act, in section 42, after "specified in the",
insert "Second or Third".
(2) In the HSA Act, in section 42, replace "or Third" with ", Third
or Fourth".
New First Schedule
3013. In the HSA Act, after section 42, insert  - 
21
"FIRST SCHEDULE
Sections 11(1)(ac) and 40A(1)
SPECIFIED ACTS
1. CareShield Life and Long-Term Care Act 2019
5 2. Geneva Conventions Act 1973
3. Healthcare Services Act 2020
4. Human Cloning and Other Prohibited Practices Act 2004
5. Human Organ Transplant Act 1987
6. Infectious Diseases Act 1976
10 7. Medical and Elderly Care Endowment Schemes Act 2000
8. MediShield Life Scheme Act 2015
9. National Registry of Diseases Act 2007
10. Termination of Pregnancy Act 1974
11. V oluntary Sterilisation Act 1974".
15 Renaming of Schedule
14. In the HSA Act, rename the Schedule as the Second Schedule.
New Third Schedule
15. In the HSA Act, after the Second Schedule (as renamed by
section 14), insert  - 
20 "THIRD SCHEDULE
Sections 36A, 36C(6) and (7) and 42
TRANSFERRING DEPARTMENTS OF
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
1. Regulatory Compliance Division
25 2. Regulatory Transformation Division
3. Surveillance and Enforcement Division".
New Fourth Schedule
16. In the HSA Act, after the Third Schedule (as inserted by
section 15), insert  - 
22
"FOURTH SCHEDULE
Sections 36F, 36H(6), (7) and (8)
and 42
TRANSFERRING DEPARTMENTS OF
5MINISTRY OF HEALTH
1. Finance Shared Services
2. Human Resource Shared Services
TRANSFERRING DEPARTMENT OF
SINGAPORE MEDICAL COUNCIL
101. Secretariat of healthcare Professional Boards".
Miscellaneous amendments
17. In the HSA Act, in the following provisions, replace "Schedule"
with "Second Schedule":
Section 30(1)
15Section 31(1)
Section 34
Section 35(4).
PART 2
AMENDMENT OF
20BIOLOGICAL AGENTS AND TOXINS ACT 2005
Amendment of section 2
18. In the Biological Agents and Toxins Act 2005 (called in this
Part the BA T Act), in section 2  - 
(a) after the definition of "approval", insert  - 
25" "Authority" means the Health Sciences Authority
established under section 3 of the Health
Sciences Authority Act 2001;"; and
(b) after the definition of "certified facility", insert  - 
23
" "Chief Executive" means the Chief Executive of the
Authority appointed under section 15 of the
Health Sciences Authority Act 2001, and
includes any individual acting in that capacity;".
5 Amendment of section 6
19. In the BA T Act, in section 6, replace subsection (3) with  - 
"(3) Despite subsection (2)(a), the Chief Executive may, after
consulting the Director-General, grant an approval to possess a
First Schedule biological agent to the operator of an uncertified
10 facility if the Chief Executive is satisfied that any activity
involving the use of the First Schedule biological agent will be
carried out at the facility in a safe and proper manner.".
New section 59A
20. In the BA T Act, after section 59, insert  - 
15 "Fees, charges, etc., collected by Chief Executive
59A. Subject to section 59(3), all fees, charges and other
moneys recovered or collected by the Chief Executive under this
Act must be paid to the Authority.".
New section 61A
20 21. In the BA T Act, after section 61, insert  - 
"Protection from personal liability
61A. No liability shall lie personally against the
Chief Executive, any enforcement officer or any other person
authorised by or acting under the direction of the
25 Chief Executive who, acting in good faith and with reasonable
care, does or omits to do anything in the execution or purported
execution of this Act.".
Miscellaneous amendments
22. - (1) In the BA T Act, in the following provisions, replace
30 "Director-General" wherever it appears with "Chief Executive":
24
Section 2 (definitions of "approval", "enforcement officer" and
"permit")
Section 3(1) to (5)
5
Section 6(6) and (7)
Section 7(3)(b) and (4)
Section 9(1)
Section 10(3)(b) and (4)
Section 12(1)(a) and (2)
10
Section 14(2)
Section 15(5) and (6)
Section 16(2)(b) and (3)
Section 18(1)
Section 19(3)(b) and (4)
15
Section 21(1)(a) and (2)
Section 23(1)(a), (2) and (3)
Section 25(1)
Section 27(3) and (4)
Section 28(1), (2) and (3)
20
Section 31(4)(b) and (5)
Section 33(1)
Section 34(3)(b) and (4)
Section 36(1)(a) and (2)
Section 39(2)
25
Section 41(g)
Section 44(c)
Section 45(1)(b) and (2)
Section 47(3) and (4)
25
Section 50(1) to (5) and (7) to (10)
Section 51(4), (6) and (7)
Section 52(1) and (2)(a) and (b)
Section 53(1) to (5)
5 Section 54(1) and (2)
Section 55(1)
Section 59(1)
Section 60(1)(a), (b) and (c) and (3)
Section 63(2)(d) and (3)(a).
10 (2) In the BA T Act, in the following provisions, replace
"Director-General" with "Chief Executive, after consulting the
Director-General":
Section 6(1)
Section 7(1)(a)
15 Section 8(1) and (2)
Section 14(1)
Section 15(1)
Section 17(1) and (2)
Section 31(1)
20 Section 32(1) and (2).
(3) In the BA T Act, in section 50(5), replace "Director-General's"
with "Chief Executive's".
(4) In the BA T Act, in section 51(8), replace "Director-General"
with "Chief Executive, after consulting the Director-General,".
26
PART 3
AMENDMENT OF
HUMAN BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH ACT 2015
Amendment of section 2
523. In the Human Biomedical Research Act 2015 (called in this Part
the HBR Act), in section 2  - 
(a) replace the definition of "authorised officer" with  - 
" "authorised officer" means an individual who is
appointed as such under section 4(2)(a);
10"Authority" means the Health Sciences Authority
established under section 3 of the Health
Sciences Authority Act 2001;
"auxiliary authorised officer" means an individual
who is appointed as such under section 4(2)(b);";
15(b) after the definition of "biomedical research", insert  - 
" "Chief Executive" means the Chief Executive of the
Authority appointed under section 15 of the
Health Sciences Authority Act 2001, and
includes any individual acting in that
20capacity;"; and
(c) after the definition of "prohibited human biomedical
research", insert  - 
" "public authority" means a body established or
constituted by or under a public Act to perform
25or discharge a public function, but does not
include a Town Council established under
section 4 of the Town Councils Act 1988;".
Amendment of section 4
24. In the HBR Act, in section 4  - 
30(a) replace subsection (2) with  - 
27
"(2) The Chief Executive may  - 
(a) appoint a public officer or an officer of a
public authority to be an authorised officer
to exercise the powers conferred on
5 authorised officers under Part 8; and
(b) appoint a public officer, an officer of a
public authority or any suitably qualified
individual to be an auxiliary authorised
officer to exercise the powers conferred on
10 auxiliary authorised officers under Part 8.";
(b) in subsections (3) and (4), after "Every authorised officer",
insert "or auxiliary authorised officer";
(c) in subsections (3) and (4), after "the authorised officer",
insert "or auxiliary authorised officer";
15 (d) in subsection (5), after "authorised officer", insert "or any
auxiliary authorised officer who is a public officer or an
officer of a public authority"; and
(e) replace subsections (6) and (7) with  - 
"(6) The Chief Executive may appoint, subject to
20 any restrictions specified in the appointment, a
suitably qualified individual who is neither a public
officer nor an officer of a public authority to assist the
Chief Executive in the administration of this Act.
(7) Every authorised officer, auxiliary authorised
25 officer or individual appointed under subsection (6),
who is not otherwise a public servant under section 21
of the Penal Code 1871, is taken to be one for the
purposes of that Code.".
Amendment of section 31
30 25. In the HBR Act, in section 31(2)(b), replace "or a public officer
authorised by the Minister" with ", a public officer authorised by the
Minister or an officer of a public authority authorised by the
Minister".
28
Replacement of section 45 and new sections 45A and 45B
26. In the HBR Act, replace section 45 with  - 
"Powers of authorised officers
45. - (1) An authorised officer may, at any time and without
5warrant, enter, inspect and search any premises or conveyance,
and the facilities in the premises or conveyance, that are being
used, or that the authorised officer has reasonable cause to
believe are being used, for the conduct of any human biomedical
research or tissue banking activity, for the purpose of  - 
10(a) investigating whether any provision of this Act has
been or is being contravened;
(b) investigating any complaint or matter in respect of
which the Chief Executive may take action under
section 42;
15(c) assessing whether the practices and procedures of a
research institution, a researcher or an institutional
review board in relation to any human biomedical
research are in compliance with this Act, the
regulations made under this Act and any applicable
20code issued under section 40; and
(d) assessing whether the practices and procedures of a
tissue bank in relation to any tissue banking activity
are in compliance with this Act, the regulations made
under this Act and any applicable code issued under
25section 40.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an authorised officer
may  - 
(a) inspect and make copies of or take extracts from, or
require the occupier or any person having the
30management or control of, the premises or
conveyance to provide copies of or extracts from,
any book, document, record or electronic material;
(b) inspect and make copies of or take extracts from, or
require the occupier or any person having the
29
management or control of, the premises or
conveyance to provide copies of or extracts from,
any medical record of any person who has been or
who is being treated or examined at the premises or
5 conveyance, even though the prior consent of such
person has not been obtained;
(c) inspect any apparatus, appliance, equipment or
instrument used or found in the premises or
conveyance;
10 (d) inspect any test or procedure relating to any human
biomedical research that has been or is being
conducted in the premises or conveyance;
(e) inspect, test, examine, remove and detain any
biological material or organism or any product of
15 human biomedical research found in the premises or
conveyance;
(f) inspect, test, examine and remove any container,
article and other thing that the authorised officer
reasonably believes to contain or to have contained
20 any biological material or organism or any product of
human biomedical research that has been or is being
conducted in the premises or conveyance;
(g) make a still or moving image or recording of the
premises or conveyance and any individual, activity
25 or thing in or on the premises or conveyance;
(h) take into or onto the premises or conveyance any
equipment and material that the authorised officer
requires for the purpose of exercising any power
under this Act in relation to the premises or
30 conveyance; and
(i) operate electronic equipment in or on the premises or
conveyance.
(3) The power under subsection (2)(i) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any premises or conveyance includes the
35 power  - 
30
(a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or
on the premises or conveyance and can be used with
the equipment or in association with the equipment;
(b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises
5or conveyance to put the relevant data in documentary
form and remove the documents so produced from the
premises or conveyance; and
(c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises
or conveyance to transfer the relevant data to a disk,
10tape or other storage device that  - 
(i) is brought to the premises or conveyance for the
exercise of the power; or
(ii) is in or on the premises or conveyance and the
use of which for that purpose has been agreed in
15writing by the occupier or any person having the
management or control of, the premises or
conveyance,
(c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device
from those premises or that conveyance.
20(4) In the exercise of the powers and duties under this section,
an authorised officer may be accompanied and assisted by an
individual appointed by the Chief Executive under section 4(6)
for the purposes of facilitating the exercise of such powers and
duties.
25(5) An authorised officer may seize from any premises or
conveyance  - 
(a) any biological material or organism or any product of
human biomedical research; or
(b) any book, document, record, apparatus, appliance,
30equipment or instrument,
which the authorised officer reasonably believes to be the
subject matter of an offence under this Act or a contravention of
or non-compliance with a provision under this Act, or to be
31
connected with the commission of such an offence,
contravention or non-compliance.
(6) Where any thing has been seized under subsection (5)  - 
(a) the authorised officer who seized the thing must give
5 written notice of the seizure to the person from whom
it was seized, if the name and address of that person
are known;
(b) the thing may be kept or stored in the premises or
conveyance where it was seized or may, at the
10 authorised officer's direction, be removed to any
other place to be kept or stored; and
(c) the authorised officer may  - 
(i) mark, seal or label the thing in such manner as
the officer thinks fit for the purpose of
15 indicating that it is under detention; and
(ii) lock or seal the whole or part of the premises,
place or conveyance in which the thing is being
detained.
(7) Any person who, without the authorised
20 officer's permission  - 
(a) interferes or tampers with, removes or otherwise
disposes of the thing;
(b) alters, counterfeits, defaces, destroys, erases or
removes any mark, seal or label placed by the
25 authorised officer under subsection (6)(c)(i); or
(c) opens, breaks or otherwise tampers with the lock or
seal placed by the authorised officer on the whole or
part of any premises, place or conveyance under
subsection (6)(c)(ii),
30 shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or to both.
32
(8) Any individual who is present in any premises or
conveyance mentioned in subsection (1) must render all
necessary assistance and cooperation to the authorised officer
as are necessary for an entry, inspection, investigation or
5otherwise for the exercise of his or her powers under this Act
in relation to those premises or conveyance.
(9) An authorised officer may  - 
(a) require any person  - 
(i) to provide any information within his or her
10knowledge; or
(ii) to produce any thing within his or her
possession for inspection by the authorised
officer and make copies of, or to provide the
authorised officer with copies of, the thing;
15(b) examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted
with the facts and circumstances of any serious
adverse event, contravention or suspected
contravention, or related safety issues with respect
to any matter under this Act, and must  - 
20(i) reduce to writing any statement made by the
person so examined;
(ii) read the statement over to the person so
examined; and
(iii) require the person so examined to sign the
25statement, after correction, if any; and
(c) require, by written order, the attendance before the
authorised officer of any person, being within the
limits of Singapore, who, from information given or
otherwise, appears to be acquainted with the facts and
30circumstances of matters under this Act, and that
person must attend as so required.
(10) The power under subsection (9)(a) to require a person to
provide any information or thing includes the power  - 
33
(a) to require that person, or any individual who is or was
an officer or employee of the person, to provide an
explanation of the information or thing;
(b) if the information or thing is not provided, to require
5 that person to state, to the best of the knowledge and
belief of that person, where it is;
(c) if the information or thing is recorded otherwise than
in legible form, to require the information or thing to
be made available to the authorised officer in legible
10 form; and
(d) if the information or thing is stored in a computer or
other electronic device, and the person or individual is
reasonably suspected to have knowledge of or access
to any username, password or other authentication
15 information required to gain access to the information
or thing, to require the person or individual to provide
assistance (including but not limited to providing any
username, password or other authentication
information) to gain access to the computer or
20 electronic device and the information or thing in the
computer or electronic device.
(11) A person examined under this section must state truly the
facts and circumstances with which the person is acquainted,
except only that the person need not say anything that might
25 expose the person to a criminal charge, penalty or forfeiture.
(12) An authorised officer is entitled without payment to keep
any information or thing, or any copy of or extract from any
information or thing, provided to the authorised officer under
subsection (9)(a).
30 (13) In this section, "thing" includes any book, document,
record, electronic material or article.
Powers of auxiliary authorised officers
45A. - (1) An auxiliary authorised officer may, during normal
business hours, enter and inspect any premises or conveyance,
34
and the facilities in the premises or conveyance, that are being
used, or that the auxiliary authorised officer has reasonable
cause to believe are being used, for the conduct of any human
biomedical research or tissue banking activity, for the purpose
5of  - 
(a) determining any person's compliance with this Act;
(b) investigating any complaint or matter in respect of
which the Chief Executive may take action under
section 42;
10(c) assessing whether the practices and procedures of a
research institution, a researcher or an institutional
review board in relation to any human biomedical
research are in compliance with this Act, the
regulations made under this Act and any applicable
15code issued under section 40; and
(d) assessing whether the practices and procedures of a
tissue bank in relation to any tissue banking activity
are in compliance with this Act, the regulations made
under this Act and any applicable code issued under
20section 40.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an auxiliary authorised
officer may  - 
(a) inspect and make copies of or take extracts from, or
require the occupier or any person having the
25management or control of, the premises or
conveyance to provide copies of or extracts from,
any book, document, record or electronic material,
but not any book, document, record or electronic
material that is a medical record;
30(b) inspect any apparatus, appliance, equipment or
instrument used or found in the premises or
conveyance;
(c) inspect any test or procedure relating to any human
biomedical research that has been or is being
35conducted in the premises or conveyance;
35
(d) inspect any biological material or organism or any
product of human biomedical research found in the
premises or conveyance;
(e) inspect any container, article and other thing that the
5 auxiliary authorised officer reasonably believes to
contain or to have contained any biological material
or organism or any product of human biomedical
research that has been or is being conducted in the
premises or conveyance;
10 (f) make a still or moving image or recording of the
premises or conveyance and any individual, activity
or thing in or on the premises or conveyance;
(g) take into or onto the premises or conveyance any
equipment and material that the auxiliary authorised
15 officer requires for the purpose of exercising any
power under this Act in relation to the premises or
conveyance; and
(h) operate electronic equipment in or on the premises or
conveyance.
20 (3) The power under subsection (2)(h) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any premises or conveyance includes the
power  - 
(a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or
on the premises or conveyance and can be used with
25 the equipment or in association with the equipment;
(b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises
or conveyance to put the relevant data (but not any
data that is a medical record) in documentary form
and remove the documents so produced from the
30 premises or conveyance; and
(c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises
or conveyance to transfer the relevant data (but not
any data that is a medical record) to a disk, tape or
other storage device that  - 
36
(i) is brought to the premises or conveyance for the
exercise of the power; or
(ii) is in or on the premises or conveyance and the
use of which for that purpose has been agreed in
5writing by the occupier or any person having the
management or control of, the premises or
conveyance,
(c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device
from those premises or that conveyance.
10(4) In the exercise of the powers and duties under this section,
an auxiliary authorised officer may be accompanied and assisted
by an individual appointed by the Chief Executive under
section 4(6) for the purposes of facilitating the exercise of
such powers and duties.
15(5) Any individual who is present at any premises or
conveyance mentioned in subsection (1) must render all
necessary assistance and cooperation to an auxiliary
authorised officer as are necessary for an entry or inspection
or otherwise for the exercise of his or her powers under this Act
20in relation to those premises or that conveyance.
(6) An auxiliary authorised officer, may by written notice,
require any person to provide, within a reasonable period or at
the time or frequency, and in the form or manner, specified in the
notice, any information or thing for a purpose mentioned in
25subsection (1)(a) to (d).
(7) An auxiliary authorised officer is entitled without payment
to keep any information or thing, or any copy of or extract from
any information or thing, provided to the auxiliary authorised
officer under subsection (6).
30(8) In this section, "thing" includes any book, document,
record, electronic material or article.
37
Offence of obstructing, etc., authorised officer or auxiliary
authorised officer in exercise of powers, etc.
45B. - (1) A person who  - 
(a) refuses to give access to, or obstructs, hinders,
5 impedes or delays, an authorised officer or auxiliary
authorised officer in the exercise of any power under
this Part;
(b) without reasonable excuse, does not comply with any
order or requirement under section 45(2)(a) or (b)
10 or (9) or 45A(2)(a) or (6), or with section 45(8) or
45A(5); or
(c) refuses to be examined under section 45(9)(b) or does
not attend before an authorised officer as required
under section 45(9)(c),
15 shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or to both.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), it is a reasonable
excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any information,
20 provide a copy of or extract from any book, document, record,
electronic material, or produce any thing or answer any question
if doing so might tend to incriminate that person.".
New section 53A
27. In the HBR Act, after section 53, insert  - 
25 "Fees, charges, etc., collected by Chief Executive or
authorised officer
53A. Subject to section 53(3), all fees, charges and other
moneys recovered or collected by the Chief Executive or an
authorised officer under this Act must be paid to the Authority.".
38
Amendment of section 54
28. In the HBR Act, in section 54  - 
(a) in subsections (1)(a) and (b), (2) and (7)(a) and (b), replace
"Director-General" wherever it appears with
5"Chief Executive"; and
(b) in subsection (7)(b), replace "Director-General's" with
"Chief Executive's".
Amendment of section 59
29. In the HBR Act, in section 59  - 
10(a) in subsections (1) to (4), after "this Act", insert "or the
regulations made under this Act";
(b) in subsection (2)(e), replace "Director-General or
authorised officer" with "Chief Executive or an
authorised officer or auxiliary authorised officer";
15(c) in subsection (3)(a), replace ", secretary or other similar
officer" with "or other similar officer, or an authorised
representative,";
(d) after subsection (5), insert  - 
"(5A) However, service of any document under this
20Act on a person by email may be effected only with
the person's prior consent (express or implied) to
service in that way.";
(e) in subsection (7), before the definition of "business
address", insert  - 
25" "authorised representative", in relation to a
partnership (other than a limited liability
partnership), means any person authorised to
accept service of documents on behalf of the
partnership;"; and
30(f) in subsection (7), replace the definitions of "last email
address" and "residential address" with  - 
39
" "document" includes a notice or an order permitted
or required by this Act or the regulations made
under this Act to be served;
"last email address" means the last email address
5 given by the addressee concerned to the person
giving or serving the document as the email
address for the service of documents under this
Act;
"residential address" means an individual's usual or
10 last known place of residence in Singapore.".
Amendment of section 61
30. In the HBR Act, in section 61, after "authorised officer", insert
", any auxiliary authorised officer".
Deletion of section 65
15 31. In the HBR Act, delete section 65.
Miscellaneous amendments
32. In the HBR Act, in the following provisions, replace
"Director-General" wherever it appears with "Chief Executive":
Section 4(1), (3), (4) and (5)
20 Section 5(2)
Section 15(4) and (5)
Section 23(1)(b) and (3)
Section 24(1) and (2)
Section 28(2)(e)
25 Section 29(1)(e)
Section 31(2)(a) and (b)
Section 34(1), (2) and (3)
Section 35(1)(b) and (3)
Section 36(1) and (2)
40
Section 39(1)(e)
Section 40(1) and (2)
Section 42(1), (2) and (3)
Section 43(1)
5Section 44(1) to (4)
Section 46(3)
Section 53(1)
Section 61
Section 63(2)(e)(v)
10Fifth Schedule, Part 3, paragraph 6(h)(ii).
PART 4
AMENDMENT OF HEALTHCARE SERVICES ACT 2020
Amendment of section 2
33. In the Healthcare Services Act 2020 (called in this Part the
15HCS Act), in section 2(1), after the definition of "authorised officer",
insert  - 
" "auxiliary authorised officer", for any provision of this Act,
means an individual who is appointed under section 7(2A)
as an auxiliary authorised officer for that provision;".
20Amendment of section 7
34. In the HCS Act, in section 7  - 
(a) after subsection (2), insert  - 
"(2A) The Director-General may, in relation to any
provision in this Act, appoint a public officer, an
25officer of any public authority or any suitably
qualified individual to be an auxiliary authorised
officer for the purposes of that provision, either
generally or in a particular case.
41
(2B) Every authorised officer or auxiliary
authorised officer, when exercising his or her
powers and carrying out his or her duties under this
Act, must comply with such general or special
5 directions as may, from time to time, be given to
the authorised officer or auxiliary authorised officer
by the Director-General.";
(b) in subsection (3), after "an authorised officer", insert "or an
auxiliary authorised officer who is a public officer or an
10 officer of a public authority";
(c) in subsection (3), after "the authorised officer", insert
"or auxiliary authorised officer who is a public officer or an
officer of a public authority"; and
(d) in subsection (6), after "every authorised officer", insert
15 ", every auxiliary authorised officer".
Amendment of section 36
35. In the HCS Act, in section 36  - 
(a) in the section heading, after "information", insert
" -  Director-General and authorised officers"; and
20 (b) in subsection (1), after "provide", insert "to the
Director-General".
New section 36A
36. In the HCS Act, after section 36, insert  - 
"Power to obtain information  -  auxiliary authorised
25 officers
36A. - (1) An auxiliary authorised officer may by notice
require any licensee to provide to the Director-General, within a
reasonable period or at the time or frequency, and in the form
and manner, specified in the notice, all documents and
30 information which  - 
(a) relate to any matter which the Director-General
considers necessary to carry out the
42
Director-General's functions or duties under this Act;
and
(b) are  - 
(i) within the knowledge of that licensee; or
5(ii) in the licensee's custody or under the
licensee's control.
(2) A person that, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by notice under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
10fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both.
(3) A person  - 
(a) that intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
document or information which the person is, has
15been or may be required by a notice under
subsection (1) to provide; or
(b) that, in providing any document or information
required under subsection (1), makes any statement
which the person knows to be false or misleading in a
20material particular or recklessly makes such a
statement,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both.
25(4) For the purposes of subsection (2), it is a reasonable excuse
for a person to refuse or fail to provide any document or
information which the person is required by a notice under
subsection (1) to provide if doing so might tend to incriminate
that person.
30(5) The Director-General is entitled without payment to keep
any document or information provided to the Director-General
under subsection (1).".
43
Amendment of section 37
37. In the HCS Act, in section 37(1)  - 
(a) replace "or an authorised officer" with ", an authorised
officer or an auxiliary authorised officer"; and
5 (b) replace "or authorised officer" with ", authorised officer or
auxiliary authorised officer".
Amendment of section 41
38. In the HCS Act, in section 41  - 
(a) in the section heading, replace "entry, inspection and
10 search, etc." with "Director-General and authorised
officers";
(b) in subsection (2), replace "the Director-General or
authorised officer may" with "the Director-General or an
authorised officer may";
15 (c) in subsection (2)(e), delete "and" at the end;
(d) in subsection (2)(f), replace the full-stop at the end with a
semi-colon;
(e) in subsection (2), after paragraph (f), insert  - 
"(g) make a still or moving image or recording
20 of the premises or conveyance and any
individual, activity or thing in or on the
premises or conveyance;
(h) take into or onto the premises or
conveyance any equipment and material
25 that the Director-General or authorised
officer requires for the purpose of
exercising any power under this Act in
relation to the premises or conveyance; and
(i) operate electronic equipment in or on the
30 premises or conveyance."; and
(f) after subsection (2), insert  - 
44
"(2A) The power under subsection (2)(i) to operate
electronic equipment in or on any premises or
conveyance includes the power  - 
(a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device
5that is in or on the premises or conveyance
and can be used with the equipment or in
association with the equipment;
(b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the
premises or conveyance to put the relevant
10data in documentary form and remove the
documents so produced from the premises
or conveyance; and
(c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the
premises or conveyance to transfer the
15relevant data to a disk, tape or other
storage device that  - 
(i) is brought to the premises or
conveyance for the exercise of the
power; or
20(ii) is in or on the premises or
conveyance and the use of which
for that purpose has been agreed in
writing by the occupier or any person
having the management or control of,
25the premises or conveyance,
(c) and to remove the disk, tape or other
storage device from those premises or
that conveyance.".
New section 41A
3039. In the HCS Act, after section 41, insert  - 
"Powers of auxiliary authorised officers
41A. - (1) An auxiliary authorised officer may, during normal
business hours, enter and inspect any premises or conveyance,
and the facilities in the premises or conveyance, that are being
45
used, or that the auxiliary authorised officer has reasonable
cause to believe are being used, to provide any healthcare
service or to store any information relating to the provision of
any healthcare service, for the purpose of  - 
5 (a) determining any person's compliance with this Act, or
any direction, notice or order issued under this Act;
(b) determining whether any condition or restriction
imposed on a licence or an approval is being
complied with; or
10 (c) assessing whether the practices and procedures of a
licensee are in compliance with this Act or an
applicable code of practice.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an auxiliary authorised
officer may  - 
15 (a) inspect and make copies of or take extracts from, or
require the occupier or any person having the
management or control of the premises or
conveyance to provide copies of or extracts from,
any book, document, record or electronic material,
20 but not any book, document, record or electronic
material that is a medical record;
(b) inspect any apparatus, appliance, equipment or
instrument used or found in the premises or
conveyance;
25 (c) inspect any test or procedure relating to any provision
of a healthcare service that has been or is being
conducted in the premises or conveyance, and inspect
any article used for or in connection with the test or
procedure;
30 (d) inspect any blood sample, blood product, human
tissue or fluid, any product of the human body,
dialysate, chemical, pharmaceutical or any other
substance found in the premises or conveyance;
46
(e) inspect any container, article or other thing that the
auxiliary authorised officer reasonably believes to
contain or to have contained blood, blood product,
human tissue or fluid, any product of the human body,
5dialysate, chemical, pharmaceutical or any other
substance;
(f) make a still or moving image or recording of the
premises or conveyance and any individual, activity
or thing in or on the premises or conveyance;
10(g) take into or onto the premises or conveyance any
equipment and material that the auxiliary authorised
officer requires for the purpose of exercising any
power under this Act in relation to the premises or
conveyance; and
15(h) operate electronic equipment in or on the premises or
conveyance.
(3) The power under subsection (2)(h) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any premises or conveyance includes the
power  - 
20(a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or
on the premises or conveyance and can be used with
the equipment or in association with the equipment;
(b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises
or conveyance to put the relevant data (but not any
25data that is a medical record) in documentary form
and remove the documents so produced from the
premises or conveyance; and
(c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises
or conveyance to transfer the relevant data (but not
30any data that is a medical record) to a disk, tape or
other storage device that  - 
(i) is brought to the premises or conveyance for the
exercise of the power; or
47
(ii) is in or on the premises or conveyance and the
use of which for that purpose has been agreed in
writing by the occupier or any person having the
management or control of, the premises or
5 conveyance,
(c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device
from those premises or that conveyance.
(4) Any individual who is present at any premises or
conveyance mentioned in subsection (1) must render all
10 necessary assistance and cooperation to the auxiliary
authorised officer as are necessary for an entry, inspection or
otherwise for the exercise of his or her powers under this Act in
relation to those premises or that conveyance.".
Amendment of section 42
15 40. In the HCS Act, in section 42  - 
(a) in the section heading, replace "or authorised officer"
with ", authorised officer or auxiliary authorised
officer"; and
(b) in subsection (1)(a) and (b), replace "or an authorised
20 officer" with ", an authorised officer or an auxiliary
authorised officer".
Amendment of section 51
41. In the HCS Act, in section 51  - 
(a) in subsections (1) and (2), replace "and an authorised
25 officer" with ", an authorised officer and an auxiliary
authorised officer"; and
(b) in subsection (2), replace "or authorised officer" with
", authorised officer or auxiliary authorised officer".
Amendment of section 55
30 42. In the HCS Act, in section 55(b), after "authorised officer",
insert "or auxiliary authorised officer".
48
PART 5
RELA TED AND MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS
Amendment of Allied Health Professions Act 2011
43. In the Allied Health Professions Act 2011, in section 39  - 
5(a) in subsection (1), after "public officer", insert "or officer of
a public authority"; and
(b) after subsection (4), insert  - 
"(5) In this section, "public authority" means a body
established or constituted by or under a public Act to
10perform or discharge a public function, but does not
include a Town Council established under section 4 of
the Town Councils Act 1988.".
Amendment of CareShield Life and Long-Term Care Act 2019
44. In the CareShield Life and Long-Term Care Act 2019  - 
15(a) in section 56(1), after "public officer", insert "or an officer
of a public authority"; and
(b) in section 60(a), after "public officer", insert
"or investigator appointed under section 46(1)".
Amendment of Dental Registration Act 1999
2045. In the Dental Registration Act 1999  - 
(a) in section 2, after the definition of "president", insert  - 
" "public authority" means a body established or
constituted by or under a public Act to perform
or discharge a public function, but does not
25include a Town Council established under
section 4 of the Town Councils Act 1988;";
(b) in section 4(e), insert "and" at the end;
(c) in section 4, delete paragraph (f);
(d) in section 44(4), after "public officer", insert "or officer of
30a public authority"; and
49
(e) in section 70(1), replace "the Board" with "a public
authority".
Amendment of Geneva Conventions Act 1973
46. In the Geneva Conventions Act 1973  - 
5 (a) in section 10A(1), after "public officers", insert "or officers
of a public authority";
(b) in section 10A, after subsection (4), insert  - 
"(5) In this section, "public authority" means a body
established or constituted by or under a public Act to
10 perform or discharge a public function, but does not
include a Town Council established under section 4 of
the Town Councils Act 1988."; and
(c) after section 10A, insert  - 
"Protection from personal liability
15 10B. No liability shall lie personally against any
inspector acting under the direction of the Minister
who, acting in good faith and with reasonable care,
does or omits to do anything in the execution or
purported execution of this Act.".
20 Amendment of Health Information Act 2026
47. In the Health Information Act 2026  - 
(a) in section 91(1)(a)(iii), replace "or any" with ", an
investigation officer or an";
(b) in section 92(1)(a)(iii), after "the Minister", insert ", an
25 investigation officer"; and
(c) in section 92(2)(c), replace "authorised officer" with
"investigation officer".
Amendment of Health Products Act 2007
48. In the Health Products Act 2007, after section 66, insert  - 
50
"Protection from personal liability
66A. No liability shall lie personally against  - 
(a) the Chief Executive;
(b) any officer of the Authority; or
5(c) any enforcement officer appointed under
section 7(1)(b) acting under the direction of the
Chief Executive,
who, acting in good faith and with reasonable care, does or omits
to do anything in the execution or purported execution of this
10Act.".
Amendment of Medical and Elderly Care Endowment
Schemes Act 2000
49. In the Medical and Elderly Care Endowment Schemes
Act 2000  - 
15(a) in section 2(1), in the definition of "authorised officer",
replace "any officer" with "any public officer or officer of
a public authority";
(b) in section 2(1), after the definition of "personal care",
insert  - 
20" "public authority" means a body established or
constituted by or under a public Act to perform
or discharge a public function, but does not
include a Town Council established under
section 4 of the Town Councils Act 1988;"; and
25(c) replace section 42 with  - 
"Protection from personal liability
42. No liability shall lie personally against  - 
(a) any authorised officer;
(b) any member of any Medifund committee;
30or
51
(c) any person acting under the directions or
authorisation of the Medifund committee,
who, acting in good faith and with reasonable care,
does or omits to do anything in the execution or
5 purported execution of this Act.".
Amendment of Medical Registration Act 1997
50. In the Medical Registration Act 1997  - 
(a) in section 5(fa), insert "and" at the end;
(b) in section 5, delete paragraph (fb);
10 (c) in section 40(2)(b), after "public officer", insert
", an officer of a public authority"; and
(d) in section 40, after subsection (9), insert  - 
"(10) In this section, "public authority" means a
body established or constituted by or under a public
15 Act to perform or discharge a public function, but
does not include a Town Council established under
section 4 of the Town Councils Act 1988.".
Amendment of MediShield Life Scheme Act 2015
51. In the MediShield Life Scheme Act 2015  - 
20 (a) in section 2(1), replace the definition of "investigator"
with  - 
" "investigator" means an individual appointed under
section 20(1) or (2) to investigate any offence
under this Act;";
25 (b) in section 20(1), after "public officer", insert "or officer of
a public authority";
(c) in section 20(3)(a), after "public officer", insert "or an
officer of a public authority";
(d) in section 24(1), after "public officer", insert "or an officer
30 of a public authority"; and
52
(e) in section 33, after "recovery body,", insert
"an investigator,".
Amendment of National Registry of Diseases Act 2007
52. In the National Registry of Diseases Act 2007  - 
5(a) in section 2, in the definition of "investigation officer",
replace "public officer" with "individual";
(b) in section 13(1), after "public officer", insert "or officer of
a public authority"; and
(c) in section 13, after subsection (2), insert  - 
10"(3) In this section, "public authority" means a body
established or constituted by or under a public Act to
perform or discharge a public function, but does not
include a Town Council established under section 4 of
the Town Councils Act 1988.".
15Amendment of Nurses and Midwives Act 1999
53. In the Nurses and Midwives Act 1999  - 
(a) in section 36(1), after "public officers", insert "or officers
of a public authority";
(b) in section 36, after subsection (5), insert  - 
20"(6) In this section, "public authority" means a body
established or constituted by or under a public Act to
perform or discharge a public function, but does not
include a Town Council established under section 4 of
the Town Councils Act 1988."; and
25(c) in section 43, replace "or any member or employee of the
Board, committee or Complaints Committee" with
"any member or employee of the Board, committee or
Complaints Committee, or any inspector appointed under
section 36(1)".
53
Amendment of Optometrists and Opticians Act 2007
54. In the Optometrists and Opticians Act 2007, in section 31  - 
(a) in subsection (1), after "public officers", insert ", officers
of a public authority"; and
5 (b) after subsection (4), insert  - 
"(5) In this section, "public authority" means a body
established or constituted by or under a public Act to
perform or discharge a public function, but does not
include a Town Council established under section 4 of
10 the Town Councils Act 1988.".
Amendment of Pharmacists Registration Act 2007
55. In the Pharmacists Registration Act 2007  - 
(a) in section 2, after the definition of "president", insert  - 
" "public authority" means a body established or
15 constituted by or under a public Act to perform
or discharge a public function, but does not
include a Town Council established under
section 4 of the Town Councils Act 1988;";
(b) in section 39(1), after "public officer", insert ", an officer
20 of a public authority"; and
(c) in section 65(1), after "public officers", insert ", officers of
a public authority".
Amendment of Poisons Act 1938
56. In the Poisons Act 1938, after section 19C, insert  - 
25 "Protection from personal liability
19D. No liability shall lie personally against  - 
(a) the Chief Executive of the Authority;
(b) any licensing officer;
(c) any public officer authorised by a licensing officer
30 under section 14(1); or
54
(d) an authorised employee under section 19A(1),
who, acting in good faith and with reasonable care, does or omits
to do anything in the execution or purported execution of this
Act.".
5Amendment of Termination of Pregnancy Act 1974
57. In the Termination of Pregnancy Act 1974  - 
(a) in section 2, in the definition of "medical practitioner",
replace the full-stop at the end with a semi-colon;
(b) in section 2, after the definition of "medical practitioner",
10insert  - 
" "public authority" means a body established or
constituted by or under a public Act to perform
or discharge a public function, but does not
include a Town Council established under
15section 4 of the Town Councils Act 1988.";
(c) in section 8, after "public officer", insert "or officer of a
public authority"; and
(d) after section 8, insert  - 
"Protection from personal liability
209. No liability shall lie personally against any public
officer or officer of a public authority appointed by
the Minister under section 8 who, acting in good faith
and with reasonable care, does or omits to do anything
in the execution or purported execution of this Act.".
25Amendment of Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners
Act 2000
58. In the Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners Act 2000  - 
(a) in section 26B(2)(b), replace "a public officer or a member
or an employee of the Board in his or her capacity as a
30public officer or such a member or an employee" with
"a public officer, an officer of a public authority or a
55
member or an employee of the Board when acting in that
capacity";
(b) in section 26B, after subsection (2), insert  - 
"(3) In this section, "public authority" means a body
5 established or constituted by or under a public Act to
perform or discharge a public function, but does not
include a Town Council established under section 4 of
the Town Councils Act 1988."; and
(c) in section 33, replace "or any member or employee of the
10 Board or committee," with "any member or employee of
the Board or committee, or any investigator acting under
the direction of the Board".
Amendment of Voluntary Sterilisation Act 1974
59. In the V oluntary Sterilisation Act 1974  - 
15 (a) in section 2, after the definition of "health institution",
insert  - 
" "public authority" means a body established or
constituted by or under a public Act to perform
or discharge a public function, but does not
20 include a Town Council established under
section 4 of the Town Councils Act 1988;";
(b) in section 6, after "Minister", insert ", or an officer of a
public authority authorised by the Minister,"; and
(c) after section 10, insert  - 
25 "Protection from personal liability
11. No liability shall lie personally against any
public officer or officer of a public authority
authorised by the Minister under section 6 who,
acting in good faith and with reasonable care, does or
30 omits to do anything in the execution or purported
execution of this Act.".
56
PART 6
SA VING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
Saving and transitional provisions
60. - (1) Despite sections 19 and 22  - 
5(a) every approval or permit granted, order made or condition
imposed by the Director-General under section 6, 7, 8, 10,
14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 23, 25, 27, 28, 31, 32, 34, 45, 51 or 53 of
the Biological Agents and Toxins Act 2005 (called in this
Part the BA T Act) as in force immediately before the
10appointed day, that is still in force, continues in effect and
is deemed to have been granted, made or imposed by the
Chief Executive under that provision of the BA T Act as in
force on the appointed day; and
(b) every requirement imposed or training specified by the
15Director-General under section 39(2), 41(g) or 47(3) or (4)
of the BA T Act as in force immediately before the
appointed day, that is still in force, continues in effect
and is deemed to be imposed or specified by the
Chief Executive under that provision of the BA T Act as
20in force on the appointed day.
(2) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on
the enactment of that provision that the Minister may consider
25necessary or expedient.
(3) In subsection (1), "appointed day" means the date of
commencement of sections 19 and 22 of the Health Sciences
Authority (Amendment) and Other Matters Act 2026.
EXPLANA TORY STA TEMENT
This Bill seeks to amend the Health Sciences Authority Act 2001 (HSA Act),
the Biological Agents and Toxins Act 2005 (BA T Act), the Human Biomedical
57
Research Act 2015 (HBR Act), the Healthcare Services Act 2020 (HCS Act) and
certain other Acts for the following main purposes:
(a) to confer new functions on the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) to
assist the Minister for Health (Minister) and the Director-General of
Health (DGH) in the administration and enforcement of certain Acts
and to provide, in place of the Singapore Medical Council (SMC),
administrative services to healthcare profession regulatory bodies;
(b) to provide for the transfer of property, assets, liabilities and employees
from the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the SMC to the HSA, in
relation to the new functions that will be performed by the HSA;
(c) to provide for the administration of the BA T Act and the HBR Act by
the Chief Executive of HSA instead of the DGH;
(d) to provide for the appointment of private individuals as auxiliary
authorised officers under the HBR Act and the HCS Act;
(e) to make miscellaneous amendments to certain other Acts for
consistency.
Clause 1 relates to the short title and commencement.
The rest of the Bill is divided into 6 Parts.
PART 1
AMENDMENT OF
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY ACT 2001
Part 1 consists of clauses 2 to 17 and amends the HSA Act for the following
main purposes:
(a) to confer new functions on the HSA;
(b) to remove the limit on the number of members constituting the HSA
and provide for the appointment of a Deputy Chairperson or
Deputy Chairpersons;
(c) to transfer property, assets, liabilities and employees from MOH and
the SMC to the HSA.
Clause 2 amends section 2 to insert a definition for "healthcare profession
regulatory Act".
Clause 3 amends section 5 to remove the limit on the number of members that
constitute the HSA.
Clause 4 inserts a new section 5A to provide for the appointment of the
Chairperson and a new position of Deputy Chairperson. With the increased
58
breadth and complexity of the HSA 's functions, it may be necessary to appoint one
or more Deputy Chairpersons for good governance and to ensure continuity.
Clause 5 amends section 9 to update the provision relating to the quorum for
meetings of the HSA.
Clause 6 amends section 11 to insert new functions of the HSA. In particular,
the HSA will administer the BA T Act and the HBR Act and assist the Minister and
the DGH in the administration or enforcement of the Acts specified in the new
First Schedule. The HSA will also provide administrative services to healthcare
profession regulatory bodies. The Minister may also, by notification in the
Gazette, assign new functions to the HSA.
Clause 7 amends section 12 to update the provision relating to the power to
charge fees, to clarify its scope.
Clause 8 makes a consequential amendment to the Part 6 heading due to the
insertion of the new Parts 6A and 6B.
Clause 9 inserts a new Part 6A, which provides for the transfer of property,
assets, liabilities and employees from MOH to the HSA in relation to the functions
transferred from MOH to the HSA. These functions relate to the administration
and enforcement of the BA T Act, the HBR Act and the Acts specified in the new
First Schedule.
The new section 36A contains definitions used for the purposes of the new
Part 6A.
The new section 36B provides for the transfer, on the first transfer date (which
is the date of commencement of clause 9), to the HSA of all assets and liabilities of
the Government relating solely to the functions discharged by the specified MOH
departments.
The new section 36B also contains saving and transitional provisions, the
general purpose of which is to put the HSA in the same legal position as the
Government, from which assets or liabilities are transferred.
The new section 36B further declares that the transfer does not  - 
(a) constitute a breach of, or default under, any Act or other law;
(b) constitute a breach of, or default under, any contract or other
instrument;
(c) constitute a breach of any duty of confidence;
(d) constitute a civil or criminal wrong;
(e) terminate an agreement or obligation;
(f) fulfil any condition that allows a person to terminate an agreement or
obligation;
59
(g) give rise to any other right or remedy; or
(h) release a surety or other obligor or obligee wholly or in part from an
obligation.
The new section 36C provides for the transfer of Government employees from
certain departments (a list of which is set out in the new Third Schedule) to the
employment of the HSA on the first transfer date. The new section 36C declares
that the transfer does not interrupt continuity of service or constitute a
retrenchment or redundancy and does not entitle any employee so transferred to
any payment or other benefit. The new section 36C also provides for civil servants
and public body employees who are seconded to the Government to continue on
secondment to the HSA.
The new section 36D declares that the transfer of employees does not affect
remuneration, leave rights or continuity of service.
The new section 36E provides for the transfer of records from the Government
to the HSA.
Clause 10 inserts a new Part 6B, which provides for the transfer of property,
assets, liabilities and employees from MOH and the SMC to the HSA in relation to
certain functions transferred from MOH and the SMC to the HSA. These functions
relate to the provision of administrative services to healthcare profession
regulatory bodies.
The new section 36F contains definitions used for the purposes of the new
Part 6B.
The new section 36G provides for the transfer, on the second transfer date
(which is the date of commencement of clause 10), to the HSA of all assets and
liabilities of the Government relating solely to the functions discharged by the
specified MOH departments, and all assets and liabilities of the SMC relating
solely to the functions discharged by the specified SMC department.
The new section 36G also contains saving and transitional provisions, the
general purpose of which is to put the HSA in the same legal position as the
Government and the SMC, from which assets or liabilities are transferred.
The new section 36G further declares that the transfer does not  - 
(a) constitute a breach of, or default under, any Act or other law;
(b) constitute a breach of, or default under, any contract or other
instrument;
(c) constitute a breach of any duty of confidence;
(d) constitute a civil or criminal wrong;
(e) terminate an agreement or obligation;
60
(f) fulfil any condition that allows a person to terminate an agreement or
obligation;
(g) give rise to any other right or remedy; or
(h) release a surety or other obligor or obligee wholly or in part from an
obligation.
The new section 36H provides for the transfer of Government and SMC
employees from certain departments (a list of which is set out in the new
Fourth Schedule) to the employment of the HSA on the second transfer date. The
new section 36H declares that the transfer does not interrupt continuity of service
or constitute a retrenchment or redundancy and does not entitle any employee so
transferred to any payment or other benefit. The new section 36H also provides for
civil servants and public body employees who are seconded to the Government to
continue on secondment to the HSA.
The new section 36I declares that the transfer of employees does not affect
remuneration, leave rights or continuity of service.
The new section 36J provides for the transfer of records from the Government
and the SMC to the HSA.
Clause 11 inserts a new section 40A to provide for the amendment of the new
First Schedule by order in the Gazette.
Clause 12 makes a consequential amendment to section 42 due to the renaming
of the Schedule, and to include the new Third and Fourth Schedules within the
scope of the provision, such that a reference in any document issued by or relating
to any of the transferred departments of MOH or the SMC will be construed as a
reference to the HSA.
Clause 13 inserts a new First Schedule, which sets out the Acts that the HSA
will assist the Minister or DGH in administering or enforcing. This Schedule may
be amended by the Minister by order in the Gazette.
Clause 14 provides for the renaming of the Schedule as the Second Schedule.
Clause 15 inserts a new Third Schedule which sets out the transferring MOH
departments for the purposes of the new Part 6A.
Clause 16 inserts a new Fourth Schedule which sets out the transferring MOH
and SMC departments for the purposes of the new Part 6B.
Clause 17 makes consequential amendments to certain provisions in the
HSA Act due to the renaming of the Schedule.
61
PART 2
AMENDMENT OF
BIOLOGICAL AGENTS AND TOXINS ACT 2005
Part 2 consists of clauses 18 to 22 and amends the BA T Act primarily to replace
references to the DGH with the Chief Executive of the HSA.
Clause 18 amends section 2 to insert definitions for "Authority" and
"Chief Executive".
Clauses 19 and 22 amend various provisions to replace references to the DGH
with the Chief Executive. Some provisions will be amended to provide that the
Chief Executive may grant a permit or approval only after consulting the DGH.
Clause 20 inserts a new section 59A to provide that all moneys recovered or
collected by the Chief Executive under the BA T Act must be paid to the HSA.
Clause 21 inserts a new section 61A which provides for the protection from
personal liability in certain circumstances for the Chief Executive, any
enforcement officer or any other person authorised by or acting under the
direction of the Chief Executive.
PART 3
AMENDMENT OF
HUMAN BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH ACT 2015
Part 3 consists of clauses 23 to 32 and amends the HBR Act for the following
main purposes:
(a) to replace references to the DGH with the Chief Executive of the HSA;
(b) to provide for the appointment of private individuals as auxiliary
authorised officers.
Clause 23 amends section 2 to insert new definitions.
Clause 24 amends section 4 to empower the Chief Executive to appoint any
public officer, officer of a public authority or any suitably qualified individual to
be an auxiliary authorised officer, who may exercise certain enforcement powers.
The clause also amends section 4(6) to provide that suitably qualified individuals
who are not public officers or officers of a public authority may be appointed to
assist the Chief Executive in the administration of the HBR Act.
Clause 25 amends section 31(2)(b) to include a reference to an officer of a
public authority. The amendment will enable the Minister to authorise HSA
officers to issue approvals for restricted human biomedical research.
Clause 26 replaces section 45 and inserts new sections 45A and 45B.
62
The new section 45 provides for powers of authorised officers, who can only be
public officers or officers of a public authority. The new section 45 (among other
things) makes it clear that authorised officers may operate electronic equipment in
the premises or conveyance being searched and may make and take a copy of the
data in such electronic equipment.
The new section 45A provides for powers of auxiliary authorised officers, who
may include individuals who are not public officers or officers of a public
authority. Auxiliary authorised officers may enter and inspect premises and
conveyances with consent during normal business hours but may not search the
premises or conveyance, and refusal to give consent is not an offence. However,
auxiliary authorised officers do not have the power to inspect, make copies of or
take extracts from medical records, or to test, examine or remove any biological
material or organism or any product of human biomedical research found on the
premises or conveyance.
The new section 45B makes it an offence to obstruct an authorised officer or
auxiliary authorised officer in the exercise of their powers.
Clause 27 inserts a new section 53A to provide that fees collected under the
HBR Act by the Chief Executive or an authorised officer must be paid to the HSA.
Clauses 28 and 32 amend various provisions to replace references to the DGH
with the Chief Executive.
Clause 29 amends section 59 to update the provision on the service of
documents.
Clause 30 amends section 61 to include auxiliary authorised officers within the
scope of the provision, which protects individuals executing the HBR Act from
personal liability in certain circumstances.
Clause 31 deletes section 65 as it is spent.
PART 4
AMENDMENT OF HEALTHCARE SERVICES ACT 2020
Part 4 consists of clauses 33 to 42 and amends the HCS Act mainly to provide
for the appointment of private individuals as auxiliary authorised officers.
Clause 33 amends section 2 to insert a definition for "auxiliary authorised
officer".
Clause 34 amends section 7 to empower the DGH to appoint any public officer,
any officer of a public authority or any suitably qualified individual to be
an auxiliary authorised officer, who may exercise certain enforcement powers.
63
Clause 35 amends the section heading of section 36 (Power to obtain
information) to insert references to the DGH and authorised officers so that it is
clear that the provision does not apply in relation to auxiliary authorised officers.
Clause 36 inserts a new section 36A which sets out the powers of auxiliary
authorised officers to obtain information.
Clause 37 amends section 37 (Publication of information) to include references
to auxiliary authorised officers. This will enable the DGH to publish information
acquired by auxiliary authorised officers under the HCS Act.
Clause 38 amends section 41, which sets out the powers of entry, inspection
and search, etc., of the DGH and authorised officers (who can only be public
officers or officers of a public authority), to make it clear that the DGH and
authorised officers may operate electronic equipment in the premises or
conveyance being searched and may make and take a copy of the data in such
electronic equipment. The section heading is also amended to insert reference to
the DGH and authorised officers so that it is clear that the provision does not apply
in relation to auxiliary authorised officers.
Clause 39 inserts a new section 41A which provides for powers of auxiliary
authorised officers, who may include individuals who are not public officers or
officers of a public authority. Auxiliary authorised officers may enter and inspect
premises and conveyances with consent during normal business hours but may not
search the premises or conveyance, and refusal to give consent is not an offence.
However, auxiliary authorised officers do not have the power to inspect, make
copies of or take extracts from medical records, or to test, examine or remove
items such as equipment, blood sample or products of the human body that are
found on the premises or conveyance.
Clause 40 amends section 42 to include auxiliary authorised officers within the
scope of the provision, so as to make it an offence to (among other things) obstruct
an auxiliary authorised officer in the exercise of his or her powers.
Clause 41 amends section 51 to include auxiliary authorised officers within the
scope of the provision. The provision provides for the confidentiality of
information obtained under the HCS Act by the individuals specified in the
provision.
Clause 42 amends section 55 to include auxiliary authorised officers within the
scope of the provision, which protects individuals executing the HCS Act from
personal liability in certain circumstances.
64
PART 5
RELA TED AND MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS
Part 5 consists of clauses 43 to 59 and make related amendments to various
Acts to enable the appointment of HSA officers to exercise powers under those
Acts, and other miscellaneous amendments.
The following Acts are amended to permit officers of a public authority to be
appointed to exercise certain powers under those Acts, so as to enable
HSA officers to be so appointed:
(a) CareShield Life and Long-Term Care Act 2019;
(b) Dental Registration Act 1999;
(c) Geneva Conventions Act 1973;
(d) Medical and Elderly Care Endowment Schemes Act 2000;
(e) MediShield Life Scheme Act 2015;
(f) National Registry of Diseases Act 2007;
(g) Nurses and Midwives Act 1999;
(h) Optometrists and Opticians Act 2007;
(i) Pharmacists Registration Act 2007;
(j) Termination of Pregnancy Act 1974;
(k) V oluntary Sterilisation Act 1974.
The following Acts are amended to insert a provision to protect certain
individuals executing those Acts from personal liability in certain circumstances
or to ensure that officers of a public authority who execute those Acts are also
included within the scope of the current protection from personal liability
provision in those Acts:
(a) CareShield Life and Long-Term Care Act 2019;
(b) Geneva Conventions Act 1973;
(c) Health Products Act 2007;
(d) Medical and Elderly Care Endowment Schemes Act 2000;
(e) MediShield Life Scheme Act 2015;
(f) Nurses and Midwives Act 1999;
(g) Poisons Act 1938;
(h) Termination of Pregnancy Act 1974;
(i) Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners Act 2000;
65
(j) V oluntary Sterilisation Act 1974.
The following Acts are amended to insert a reference to officers of a public
authority as persons who may make a complaint regarding a healthcare
professional without the need for a supporting statutory declaration, to enable
HSA officers to do so:
(a) Allied Health Professions Act 2011;
(b) Dental Registration Act 1999;
(c) Medical Registration Act 1997;
(d) Pharmacists Registration Act 2007;
(e) Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners Act 2000.
In the following clauses, miscellaneous amendments are made to various Acts
for the purposes set out below:
(a) clause 45 amends section 4 of the Dental Registration Act 1999 to
delete the function on providing administrative services to healthcare
profession regulatory bodies, as this function will be performed by the
HSA;
(b) clause 47 amends sections 91 and 92 of the Health Information
Act 2026 to clarify the scope of the provisions and to correct a
typographical error;
(c) clause 50 amends section 5 of the Medical Registration Act 1997 to
delete the function on providing administrative services to healthcare
profession regulatory bodies, as this function will be performed by the
HSA.
PART 6
SA VING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
Part 6 consists of clause 60, which sets out the saving and transitional
provisions.
EXPENDITURE OF PUBLIC MONEY
This Bill will not involve the Government in any extra financial expenditure.
66